So the program that we have done today let's get the top camera, I'll show you the shots we're going to do. We're going to do the 80's 
espresso, and these are organized 
with different flavor profiles. So kind of fruity to less fruity. So 80's espresso we're going to 
pull 2 ways, with 18g and with 12g and different baskets, Londinium is a very traditional and 
excellent lever espresso machine, and this is the emulation of it. Cremina is another lever machine, and 
we're going to make a shot with that. The Best Overall which is a pressure 
profile from Scott Rao's book "Everything um it's the espresso book, 
I'm forgetting the title of it. And then the E61 profile, which 
seems to be the simplest, a lot of people go to it, but when we go to the E61 profile I'm 
going to explain how to change it, too. So with the E61 profile, you can 
do many of the profiles here and everything in between 
by working with the sliders. All right, to keep things sort of fairer here we're going to be making all the shots 
with 18 g Decent Espresso baskets, 18 g doses, we're going to vary the grind slightly. We're going to be using the Niche 
and I'm going to talk about the grind. The three profiles here 
- Londinium Cremina and Best overall - 
all have the same grind, and this is a fine grind. The 80s espresso is a little bit coarser, and the E61 is the most 
coarse of them all. Okay so Mark go ahead and let's 
go do the 80s espresso. Now, while he's doing that I will just say  
a word about dark roasts in general. Freshness, and I say it again freshness - I feel like a real estate agent: 
"Location, location, location!" - freshness, freshness, freshness! The thing about dark roasted beans is 
that the more you roast the coffee, the more the oil is going to 
degrade from the higher temperature. Now, that's okay if the 
beans are quite fresh. And I spend quite a lot of time in France, 
and they have the darkest roast beans, but it can be okay coffee, because 
they're getting a daily delivery of beans. Now, it's the same thing if you go to Italy 
and you try coffee in various places; You will find that the petrol stations 
tend to have the best espresso, and the reason is it's the freshest. They're banging out coffee, and every 
day they've got fresh beans coming in. The beans we're using are called Tuberga, that's the family name from the 
founder of Eurocaf in Turin, Italy. We flew them in. Now, normally, they won't even sell them 
to consumers, because freshness. They want people to use them 
within 2 or 3 weeks maximum. Now, these are about a month old. However, as soon as they arrived, we 
sealed them and froze them at -30°C. We've taken them out, 
so they're still quite fresh, and there's a lot of crema coming out. So here we have our first shots; This is 80s espresso. The buttons on the top here are 
going to be the 5 profiles we're 
doing from left to right. And what's interesting about 
80s espresso is it is a lever 
profile, but at low temperature. Now Paul, who many of you have asked, Paul is has moved on and 
is starting a café himself. So we're no longer seeing Paul, but we 
are enjoying the profile that he created. Some time ago, I asked him to focus 
on what could we do interestingly with the control we have on the 
Decent and dark roasted beans, and what he came up with 
was this; the 80s espresso. Now, the reason it's called 80s espresso 
is because it starts here at 80°C, and then it comes down in temperature 
coming down towards 70°C, but it's really just a descending 
temperature profile. That is at least 8°C cooler 
than a normal espresso, but a lot of traditional machines 
are around 95, 96°C. So looking at maybe 15°C less. Now you can see it's quite thick, right. You've made a nice traditional espresso. I'm going to put it here. And and then profile-wise, it 
doesn't really have a pre-infusion, it just does maximum water flow. The puck compresses 
and then it flows out. And this is 18 g in, 36 g out, 
so a traditional 2:1 ratio. You can pull this shorter. Now the reason Paul made this profile the 
way he is is that he doesn't like dark roast. He finds them full of defects. And what he was trying to do was to 
express the fruitiness that might be there if two things happened: One is could he lower the 
temperature so that the darker tar 
flavors would get extracted less, and I think he did that very 
successfully with this profile. The other is if there are bitter flavors 
coming out or sort of um dusty flavors, pull this shorter. I like doing this profile, the 
80s espresso, at a 1:1 ratio. So I would do 18 grams in, 18 g out. And that would be a lot more 
like they drink espresso in Italy, because they'll drink it four 
or five times a day and they 
drink much smaller quantities. These doubles that we drink 
here in the rest of the world 
would give the Italians the shakes, because they would be 
drinking too much per day. So that's what we've got here. This is a really nicely pulled 
shot, about 25 seconds. We could have ground this a little finer. And flavor-wise if we're looking to get a 
real smooth slightly bread fruit and raisins, or typical of what the flavors 
um 80s espresso pulls out. So let's have a taste of this. So for me it's a little bit dusty. And I think we were more 
successful earlier when we were 
pulling this at a slower flow rate. And also it's a little bit thin. And one of the things we're going 
to find with the shots we pull here is with the darker roasts I prefer 
to pull them at slow flow rates. Instead - let's see where we were on flow
rates - we peaked at 1.9 ml/s. Okay here, that's what they're saying here. And I would like to bring 
that down to 1 to 1.2 ml/s. Really slow and thick, more mouthfeel. But also, it's going to 
just make it a lot smoother. What do you think about that shot? I know it has some dryness to it. I agree, the dryness is there. I think that that's the faster 
flow, 25 sec is a bit long. I think I would like these shots...It's really 
common for lever shots to run 35-45 sec. And they taste best. So you've got a 12 g version of this. Yes. Ready to go. So this is with our our 
very waisted basket. So instead of a straight wall 
basket like this, we're curving in. And yeah I don't know 
if you can see from there, and moving it around, you 
can sort of see that there. And I'll show that there. Okay. And the reason that we're 
doing this very waisted basket - go ahead and pull that - is because lever machines 
have narrower baskets. They will be down to 44 mm 
instead of 58 mm. But everything between - 44, 48, 
51, 52 -  those are all sizes 
you'll see with lever machines. And the thicker puck is going to give you 
less channeling and more mouth feel, a less challenging shot, but more of an 
earthy kind of heart oriented shot, and I think that that's quite successful. So the grind has gone 
from 20 on the Niche, and what are now on? 16.  16, okay. So we've gone from 20 to 16, 
so four notches finer. That's quite a lot. The other thing is - thinking 
about Italy - is that they don't do 
these big 18 20 22 g doses. In fact, it's very common 
to do 7 g doses in Italy. I'm not super happy with 
what 7 g tastes like, But that was another challenge for Paul. Paul was responsible for all the 
waisted basket research, and this was the smallest dose that we 
thought made excellent espresso. So this is a 12g basket. It is straight and then it tapers, and the advantage of that is that you 
can use a standard 58 mm tamper. There are other baskets 
out there that do this, and those are great, but you 
will need a different tamper that 
goes into the inside basket. Most recently also, there are 
kits that will adapt our machine 
to a smaller basket size, and those are also interesting and will 
give you more of a lever experience. So go ahead. So one of the things about the Decent 
is that while it can copy things like 
temperature, pressure, flow, it can't mechanically suddenly 
make the puck thicker, unless 
you actually change the basket. So if you were to compare, for 
example, a lever machine that had 
a very narrow basket to a Decent, they're not going to taste the 
same, no matter what you do, unless you switch the basket diameter. So can we show the shot pulling 
here on the side camera? You can see - so this is 
called a mouse tail. The mouse tail is a continuous stream of 
espresso just barely holding its integrity. And you can't quite see in 
the camera, but the very bottom 
was falling apart into droplets. So let's go back to the 
front and show the shot here. And one thing you'll note that's 
different here is not only do we 
have a bit thicker crema, but we've got what are called 
tiger striping, which is a difference 
in colors here on the crema. And those are fines that migrate in. That's considered a desirable trait. It's fine. Here I got it, I got it. All right that is just worlds better. Go ahead and taste. Even though we went to a 
much lower dose, from 18 to 
12g, it's just way smoother. This is going to be the least tar and burnt 
extraction method for dark roasted beans. So dark roasted beans are always 
going to have burnt flavors. That's what makes them dark. If they don't have any burnt flavors 
but they're chocolatey, then 
they're in the medium world. Okay? That's how I would separate. Quickly just in terms of 
light, medium, dark: Light is going to have 
no chocolate flavors, medium is the whole chocolate 
world but no burnt flavors, and in dark you're still with some 
chocolate flavors, probably more 
what's called baker's chocolate, which is quite intensely strong and bitter, but always what I call forest fire, 
which is there's some burn to it. And depending on your tolerance or how 
much you like those flavors, you're going 
to maximize them or minimize them. So 80s espresso with the lower 
temperature is going to minimize them, and then the slower flow 
rate and see what we did here; we started at a flow rate here 2.4 
going up, so we end up at a 1 ml/s, and back here we're around 0.5 ml/s. So this is a nice slow shot - 37 seconds -, even though it was a small dose. Really successful shot. And if you can also see from the 
top camera, really minimal spray. A little bit more spray here on the 18 g 
one, so really minimal channeling, which that greater puck depth 
is partially responsible for. Possibly also your great puck prep. Any other comments on the flavor? It tastes way more smoother than the first 
one, the dryness is way more controlled. Yeah I agree the dustiness isn't there. I'm not really getting 
staleness, which is great. That is something that comes in really 
quickly with dark roast flavors, and I'd say that baker's chocolate, 
like if you were to bite into some 
unsweetened chocolate, you would probably have something 
that's close to this in flavor. Yes, I agree, yes. It's not screamingly fruity. And something to keep in mind if 
you're buying dark roasted beans is they don't taste the same 
now than they did 10 years ago. And that's because beans have 
gotten more expensive, and generally, dark roasted is 
what's selling in mass quantity, And the buyers are very price sensitive. So if you can find um a quality 
dark roasted supplier and the 
price has gone up, it may be worth it, cause I feel like 10 years ago, 
this had red wine flavors, and I'm not really getting them now. And that's probably because 
the price hasn't changed, and that's how it is. Mhm. I think you've had some experience as 
well in the coffee industry of that trend. Yeah. Price being so important. Especially in the past couple years 
the price is twice or even triple. But the buyers don't want to hear it. Yes. And so it means lowering the quality. Mhm. So let us go to Londinium next. Now, Londinium is a 
beautiful lever machine and this is a copy of what it does. What's going to be different is Londinium 
is going to do a fast fill, just like this did but there's going to be 
a pause under pressure. And if I were to imitate it with a 
lever, it's lift up so water comes in and then slam down the lever, and then hold with some pressure
 - about three bar of pressure - until 
you see some dripping come out. Depending on how much 
dripping you want as a barista 
with a Londinium machine, you would then let it go to max 
pressure and then degrade down again. Yeah. Yeah that's too complicated to figure out. Okay there are two versions 
of Londinium: LRV2 and LRV3. The main difference between 
them is that they deal with the 
shot going badly in different ways. So the Londinium reversion 2 if on this last bit, it's going too fast... you can go ahead and crank it out. If it's going too fast at the end 
on the RV2, it will switch from being 
pressure based to flow based, and it will lower the flow down 
to 1.7ml/s is my memory. That will cause a kind of pressure crash 
often, because the flow was going 
higher to keep the pressure up, but it will really tame the 
acidity that was coming in. So one of the big problems with 
flat 9 bar espresso machines is that toward the end of the 
shot the flow rate goes way up, and they tend to get quite acidic. The Londinium avoids that by 
having a decreasing pressure, and Londinium RV2 says if the 
puck is eroding too much, stop having pressure as a goal, go to flow. Londinium RV3 takes a 
different approach; it just 
decreases the pressure like that as a lever shot and and doesn't 
worry about it too much. I talked to Damian about why 
do we still have 2 and 3, and he said because some people 
actually still prefer one or the other. And it's true. I've been trying Londinium for a few 
weeks now with the same bean, and I would say 2 and 3 have different 
flavors when things are going a bit too fast and they salvage it in different ways. For me, when I have Londinium 
dialed in perfectly I prefer RV3, because it it's just a lever shot. It's a declining pressure shot. You've got 30 seconds. Alright, so here's our dripping. The pallets are moving above us. Ok, great. Shot looks good. So we've right, we've risen to 9 bar 
and now the pressure is 
declining, flows a little bit fast. Great. And here we are with 36, ok? And so some of the attributes that 
we liked in 80s espresso are here; we have a nice thick shot, we have some tiger striping, we've got quite thick, look at that, 
the crema is really thick. And it's much thicker 
than the 80s espresso, and I think that that's a couple things. One is that is the longer 
hold under pressure and going up to a high pressure. Also, it's higher temperature. So this is going to taste a lot more 
like a traditional Italian espresso, however, it's going to extract a lot more. And I would say if you've got 
quality dark roasted beans that 
maybe have a bit of subtlety to them, Londinium is a really good 
profile to choose. This soak time here is going to 
extract far more out of your beans. What it's also doing is it's 
holding pressure constant. So the reason I didn't choose Adaptive 
here is Adaptive lets the pressure drop, and on dark roasted beans, that's 
not great, cause you sacrifice 
a lot of mouth feel. Here it pressurizes, holds the puck really 
squished and then rises in pressure again. And you can see what he's done, he being Damian who authored this, is there's this declining pressure 
profile, which kept flow constant. So this is a great profile for getting 
a lot of flavor and a lot of body. What are your thoughts 
on that cup, Mark? It tastes I can taste way more dark chocolate 
flavor coming out compared to the 80s, and smoother, somehow. At least in my mouth, it tastes... I think there's just way more extracted. Yeah. Yeah, it's a it's a much 
more fullbodied cup, I think. So 80s espresso is intentionally 
under extracted, Right. and that's because the temperature 
is lower so it extracts less. If you don't have off flavors, you don't mind, you don't 
think they taste like off flavors, then Londinium is going to 
extract probably the most of all 
these profiles that we've got here. So this is a big bold cup of coffee. Anything to add to that? Okay. Next, we're going to do the Cremina. Now, Cremina is another lever machine, and it...but the the big difference is that
with Londinium you can see the pressure 
really didn't come down much. It went from 9 down to 8 bar, we stayed up very high pressure, and the reason we did that is because 
our flow was held pretty constant. Same grind. Now, we're on 20, is that right? Yes. 20 on the Niche, so 20 on Londinium, 
Cremina and Best Overall. Go ahead and do it. And the difference is the Cremina
 is going to be a longer shot; it's probably going to end up 
being 45 seconds or so. The flow rate is going to drop here. And the theory behind this is 
that in a dark roasted bean, most of 
the flavor comes out quite quickly, and you want the thickness to stay. And if you keep the pressure high, 
then as the puck erodes, you're 
getting more and more watery coffee. And so with a proper lever 
machine, you're really dropping 
the pressure as the shot continues to try and keep the thickness of the 
coffee coming out um nice and high. And so really syrupy, thick espresso. So Cremina is going to be 
most effective at doing that. If you're going after a mouth feel, I 
would say this is a really good choice. We didn't do it because I don't want 
to have too many shots here, but Cremina would be another one that 
I would make with a wasted basket, trying to get a thicker puck, because I am doing a really long shot. Go ahead. I'm doing a long shot, thick puck, 
thick espresso, really traditional. Alright, so we have a fast fill, and little bit of dwelling here, 
a little bit of soaking, and now up we go on the pressure. And you can see our flow 
rate is quite slow. And if you go to the side camera showing 
the shot, we have a really thick shot. And you can hear the espresso 
machine tapping away. You can hear the flow rate slowing down. Okay. 44 second shot, so this is 
really nicely dialed in. Thank you, Mark. And the king of chocolate. Just a crazy amount of thickness to this. Shake that around like that. To give you an idea, I can't even 
get the crema to separate right.  I'm putting a a spoon in there. So much thickness. And what did we do in the end we are 36g, 
so same out same in as the others, but that was a lot. Alright, and let's give this a taste. What are your thoughts on that? Mh. The after taste tastes longer 
than the previous Londinium, you know so... It feels more intense to me, yeah. Yeah we are going up in temperature, 
so Londinium was I believe at 88 °C through most of it, and now we 
are at 92°C on this shot, so that's a 4°C increase, and I'm tasting that. I'm tasting this coffee getting more and 
more like that Italian petrol station at the higher temperature. For me, this is a harsher 
espresso, it's not as refined, but I'm extracting more and more out of it. So if you're looking for an 
espresso that really um wakes 
you up at the end of a meal, like you really want to just 
down it and and kaplow, this would be a good one. You also could pull this 
with 12 g still 45 seconds out, and get something really long, you also could pull it as a ristretto. So because that higher 
temperature is going to give you what the southern European tradition 
would consider to be a real espresso. Right? There's there's nothing fruity about that. No. We are in baker's chocolate and some 
some burn, some mouth feel. You know the goal here with 
this is to show you the variations 
of things you can pull, not to say that one style 
is different and better. And now we're going to go to Best Overall. So the Best Overall profile that 
came from um Scott Rao's book. And he didn't have access to 
a pressure profiling machine at 
the time that he wrote the book, it was a friend of his who 
did, I think it was Strada, and he trusted that friend and 
it was a 9 bar to 6 bar profile. And when I did the initial app for this, that's why we call it the Best Overall, 
because it's in the appendix of Scott Rao's 
book as the Best Overall Pressure profile. Now this isn't worlds different; you can see here we went to 
about 7.8 bar and went down, but the Best Overall is 
going to be a three-step profile, it's going to fast fill, it's 
not going to have any long, it's not going to have any soaking time 
like the Londinium does, no dripping time, it's going to be more traditional, rise up in pressure quickly, and then 
dropping pressure, hopefully to maintain a 
slow flow rate that is constant. That's what we're trying 
to do with tis profile. And we are still at the same grind size as 
Londinium, Cremina and Best Overall. So Best Overall really is a lever 
shot, but it's not going to ever 
get down to low pressures. It's going to stay pretty high. Once we're done with that, we're 
going to show you the E61 profile. And we could, in fact, just 
change Best Overall into E61, but I want to show you in the 
Decent Espresso machine you 
got two kinds of profiles: so the simple profiles, which are flow and 
pressure and they're three-step shots; pre-infusion, rise in pressure, 
decline in pressure. That's how all those shots work, and then there's advanced profiles 
that can do any number of things. Now 80s, Londinium, Cremina, 
those are advanced profiles. Because they're advanced, 
they're a bit harder to edit. Best Overall, E61 are those 
three-step simple profiles, and 
you can edit them yourself. So let's show that - just watch 
your arm, it's there on the side. So here we go again with 
a nice smooth shot, I mean it looks really pretty. And we should stop at 36. Good. I want to show you the curves and explain So here we go again, we got a very fast fill. Now, fast fill is important when 
you're doing dark roast, because you want to get minimal 
channeling and you want mouth feel. If you do a slow fill, especially 
with dark roast, you're more 
likely to have channeling, you're going to extract a bit more 
unevenly, and it's going to have less body. So as fast as you can go. Lever machines are even faster. So it took us about 5, 6 seconds 
- 5 seconds is what it says here on 
the screen - to saturate the puck, flow dropped, the pressure 
went screaming up to 8.6 bar, and 
then it slowly was declining. So this is a traditional 
pressure controlled shot. And what you can see here is that the 
declining pressure - as the puck was 
eroding - it started to speed up, but then this decline pressure kicked in, 
and it kept the flow rate pretty constant. And that's believed to be a good 
thing, to have constant flow rate. The Adaptive profile enforces it, so what it does is it goes to this point 
and then it switches to flow profiling, and a pressure comes out. But this sort of profile was nicely 
dialed in for this style of bean, and so it doesn't really matter if you're 
pressure profiled or flow profiled, 
you end up with the same curves. Alright, here we are. Let's give it a slurp and let's see. So we've got less crema, 
noticeably less crema in this. So much less time under 
pressure, than the Cremina. Flavor-wise, what do you have to say? Flavor-wise I would say it 
started to taste a bit bitter to me compared to the previous one. Cremina 
is still taste the most smooth so far. Best Overall profile still shows up that 
bitter dark chocolate side quite much, yes. We've come down in temperature, to 88°C from 92°C. I feel like the 
temperature might be a big factor here. For me, this is less extracted 
than Londinium was the most 
and Cremina quite as well. Cremina was the the most, sorry, 
because it had the highest temperature. Londinium was for me the 
most fullbodied cup. Best overall is an easier drinker for me. I find it to be -if it's pulled back a bit 
on the extraction, it's really pleasant. For me, if I were milking, if I were 
making any sort of latte, flat white, any sort of drink, I would probably 
go with the Best Overall. There's no acidity, it's just a nice smooth shot. Yeah, it is. Yeah, it's great for taste for milk drinks. Exactly. Crema is not necessarily a good thing 
either when you're putting milk in, you're going to have to mix it in, so I'm quite happy with that. And let's go ahead and 
make the E61 shot. And one of the things we're going to do 
with E61 is we're going to go coarser. And the reason is usually on traditional 
E61 machines, the shots are more like 25s And here we've been doing lever style. Now, E61 machines are no 
pre-infusion, hit the puck hard and 
then go to 9 bar and sustain 9 bar. And a characteristic of them 
is they have some sourness. The reason they have sourness 
is that the constant 9 bar 
against the puck that's eroding is going to make the flow rate go up. On E61, you can't see that 
happening, we can see it here. And that's why you want to 
make your shot a bit shorter, because with the constant 
pressure, the flow rate going up, the longer you pull your shot, the 
more that flow rate is going to go up, the more likely your shot 
is going to be sour. So quicker, shorter being 
more typical of E61. We've gone to a 25 grind, 
is that right here? Still 18, 36. Sorry the grind size. 25. 25, ok. We got one bean there, two beans. Now, I am not a fan of the E61 profile. It's 
there because people think it should be, and it saddens me when people buy 
this machine and do the E61 profile, but there it is.  I was joking yesterday that for this 
to actually be an E61 profile, I'd have to make this temperature 
start at 60°C and then go to 95°C, because E61s are notoriously 
temperature unstable. And um but I didn't do that. I made an E61 that was 
incredibly temperature stable. There are some E61s now that 
are, but E61 - if you don't know it
 - it was invented in 1961 and is largely unchanged, except for 
some smarter heater technology, called PIDs, and some companies have put 
insulators on top of the group head. Alright, so let's show the camera 
on the side, and you should see 
the shot is flowing a lot faster. It still looks quite pretty, and then as it progresses, you can 
see the color changing on the shot. So it lightened up toward the end. Now, that was probably too coarse, right? So we did 36 g in 15 seconds. I don't even know if I want to taste this, cause that was too much. Can we go to something 
intermediate grind size? Mhm. And try dial it in? So this uh couple of things here: So one our flow rate was 4 ml/s, which 
might be appropriate for a very light roast, not great for a dark roast, it's going to be too watery and too many 
bad flavors are going to come out. The other thing is it's just too 
short a shot - 15 seconds. I wouldn't mind a 22 second shot, that 
would be probably as fast as I would want. 25 would be great. What grind size you trying here? So I was 25 before, and now I'm 22. Okay. So that's going to be the same 
grind size that you had for 80s. Yes. Okay. And that certainly makes sense. The other thing to note with E61 is I've 
brought the temperature back up to 92°C. Again, temperature on 
E61 is extremely variable, so it's hard to say an 
E61 shot is a certain thing, but traditional E61s only 
had one boiler in them, and that boiler brought the water 
up to a steam-level temperature. And the reason that E61 machines 
have all the exposed chrome 
that you can burn yourself on is so that the burning hot steam, 
by the time it goes to the tubes 
and the group head, has now come down to a reasonable 
temperature to make espresso. And that's how these E61 machines 
were able to make steam instantly 
as well as make espresso instantly. If you were to put any sort of insulation 
on the group head of an E61 machine, 
then it doesn't work right anymore, because it's supposed to 
lose temperature from the 
steam to the espresso. And one more word on that: I think 
that double boilered E61 machines 
are an abomination. That it's a terrible idea, because 
the entire design of the E61 is 
to have all that exposed chrome, so that the water temperature 
is dropping from 120, 130 °C 
steam down to about 90, 95 °C. If now you have a boiler that is the 
right temperature for espresso, why are you using a group 
head that's losing heat? It's the wrong technology, which is why, in fact, most of the main 
manufacturers of professional machines 
don't make E61s for professional use. They make boilers that bring the water 
up to the correct temperature and 
then they insulate the group head, so that the boiler temperature is more 
or less what hits the espresso. So on the side, you can 
see this shot pulling. And this was a lot more successful. So this was 24 seconds. Our flow rate was a bit faster, 
but right about what I would 
expect for this sort of thing. And you can see very fast fill, pressure rose nice and smoothly, and then we held at nine bar constantly 
and our flow rate started to increase. I haven't spoken about grinders, 
and this is a good time to do so. We are using the Niche grinder, and I would recommend you use a 
grinder that creates fines if you're going 
to be making dark roasted coffee. And that's because you see how this is 
nice uh only speeding up a little bit? The fines are what's keeping 
that puck integrity going. Now you can use a flat burr grinder, 
but you want it to be faster RPM. The faster the RPM, the 
more fines you create. If you have a 60 mm flat burr grinder, I consider that to be pretty much 
ideal for dark roasted beans. And, in fact, they're all over Italy, 
that's the most common size. Let's give this a stir. We should 
see a fair amount of crema here. And that's pretty good, right? And the reason we're seeing that much 
crema is because we hit the puck hard, and then we sustain nine 
bars through the entire time. So it's pressure that makes crema, as well 
as CO2 outgassing from fresh beans. So that's kind of interesting. Tell me what you think. I feel like the bitterness is 
less pronounced in this one 
compared to the previous one. What do you think about balance? Balance...I think it's tastes 
pretty smooth to me. Yeah. Acidity vs other flavors? To be honest I don't taste 
much from this one. So this is my favorite straight 
espresso of all of them. And that's probably because I'm not a 
dark roast guy, I actually like acidity. And I like acidity balanced 
off with other flavors. And this faster flow rate that 
we have here has made a shot 
that's a little bit less smooth, and it's given me a bit of acidity 
and I'm really liking it. As espresso, that's the winner for me, which I didn't really expect. But 
again, it depends on personal taste. So for me that faster flow I really liked, and I felt like that was 
a great compromise. So there what we've done is an E61 
that doesn't exist in the real world in the sense that it's an E61 machine 
with an accurate temperature. What I also liked about that is 
that even though the extraction 
temperature at 92°C is quite high, I don't have that much tar flavor. What it might be due to Illy's book - quite famous 
on the espresso extraction - talks about how the tar flavors 
take more time to come out. And I think that the shorter 
shot - 24 seconds - prevented 
those flavors from coming out. Yeah, I agree. So what we got is like baker's 
chocolate with not much 
acidity but more than the others. Mhm, mhm. Yeah? Fair enough. So what I want to show you now 
is - I think I'll take over here - is you can come over here - I just want to show you so if I can get the front camera. Great. 
And I'll stay on camera and I'll go over here So here is the E61 profile, and what I want to show you is how 
to use this editor to create a number of 
different profiles from history. So E61 is the simplest: No 
pre-infusion, no declining, just 
hit the puck at 9 bar until you hit 36 g. Now, E61 machines later 
did have a little switch, where line pressure could be engaged. So line pressure is about 3 bar. And that's me adding 12 s of 
pre-infusion here, which is line pressure water 
going in, letting it soak, and then 
rising up to 9 bar of pressure. And that can be a useful thing if you want 
to have that evolution of the E61 machine. And then if you wanted to do something 
that looked like the Cremina machine, except minus the soaking, because 
this profile can't do a pause here, here, we've got a fill for 12 seconds 
or until it reaches 4 bar and then we rose to 9 bar of pressure 
and then we started to decline. And the reason you might want to do this is we saw in several shots how the flow 
rate stayed constant on its own at 9 bar 
for a certain amount of seconds, maybe 5,10 seconds, and then the flow rate started to increase, and then the pressure being told 
to decrease would compensate 
for the increasing flow rate. So we saw that for example on 
Londinium and Cremina also. That's what we're doing here is 
this part here the puck is 
rearranging, fines are migrating, pressure is doing okay, flow is doing 
okay, and then flow starts to increase. And so why don't you 
decrease your pressure, which is going to automatically 
cause flow from going up too fast. Now, what you'll find - remember that E61 shot had 
some acidity that I liked - if I tinker with this, that is going to affect how 
much acidity is in the cup. I can get rid of acidity here, but I can tell 
you because I've done this taste test. If I drop the flow uh the 
pressure too quickly, then it actually becomes kind of boring 
and muted and just kind of gray tasting. If I were to do that, now I'm back to E61, 
I'm just a flat 9 bar the whole way. And so you can tinker with this and decide 
how much acidity you want in your shot. From experience, I can tell you that 
between 4 to 6 bar of pressure at the end gives a really pleasing balance 
of acidity to other flavors. So that's what you do in in this case. Now some people like real long pre-
infusions; do not do this with dark roasts. It's going to overextract it, 
it's going to be dry, it's going 
to taste like bad filtered coffee. And if you want a thicker puck, 
what I would probably do is get 
rid of pre-infusion completely. This is a really simple lever machine; 
it's going to create a great shot. It's going to hit the puck with 
maximum flow in order to try 
and hit 9 bar as fast as possible, and then it's going to do a gentle 
decrease down to 4 bar, stopping at 36g. So that's how you can use this 
editor to adjust the shot parameters 
based on what you're tasting, and I think this three-step shot editor is 
especially useful for dark roasted beans. This three-step concept is how most 
espresso machines from history work, that's why I programmed it this way, and it was only later that people 
in the Decent community 
started to think of ways to use this machine to 
make good light roasted coffee. And the profiles for 
that are quite different. So three-step editor, you can start 
with E61 and start to tinker with it, or you can pick these here. And that is our episode today. Mhm. Thank you for watching. So relative grind size for 
different profiles and the question 
is talk a little bit about that. So generally if you have a long 
dripping time, so a pre-infusion, then 
you're going to have to grind finer. If you um pre-infuse with a slower flow 
rate, you're going to have to grind finer. So the profiles where you hit the puck 
really hard and then rise in pressure 
those can have coarser grinds. And we had a 23 on the E61, is that right? Uh yes. And that was that was 
the coarsest of all of them. So the 80s espresso at 22 that also 
doesn't have any sort of long pre-infusion, and the E61 again none, and then these had to be finer, 
all three of these were the same, and so the only thing that's 
outlier there is Best Overall. So Londinium and Cremina 
both had fairly fine grinds. The reason the Best Overall we 
kept it a fine grind is because 
we wanted a really long shot. We wanted like a 45 second shot, that 
was the style that we were going for. So that's how you can think about 
it is look at your profile; if it has a 
fast fill it's going to be coarse, if it doesn't have any dripping, 
it's going to be coarse, if it has a long dripping time like 
Londinium does, Adaptive does, 
you're going to need to go finer.  Hope that's helpful. So the roastery that supplied the 
beans is called Eurocaf in Turin, Italy. I quite like them as a dark roasted bean, and I'll talk about the story behind 
them, because it's kind of cute. So if you can show that there, so you can see they are dark roasted, 
however, there's not really much 
oil glistening on them. And that's just a personal taste, I 
don't really like greasy beans. So there's a little bit of oil I can see 
shining off of that, but really very little. And this is a coffee bean that I 
discovered - their salesman came 
to Hong Kong to a trade show, and we got along really well, and I visited 
them in Turin as part of my tour of Italy to try and show some respect 
and learn about the Italian 
tradition of making espresso. And the cute story about this is I went to the roster, it was um the son 
of the original founder was there, and I brought my machine, and they pulled a shot with theirs and I 
emulated it with a 95°C temperature shot. And they went: "Okay you can make the 
same sort of shot that we do." And then I made the same shot at 88°C. And he was shocked, because 
there's no real temperature regulation 
on the machines they're using. They're just it's there's steam coming out; 
they run the shot until the steam stops, then they pull the shot. So those are like 95, 96 °C. Bringing the temperature down made a 
much smoother shot and immediately 
they started to appreciate it more. And that was interesting. But this is where it gets more funny is I had brought some milk around 
because I wanted them to taste Italian 
espresso as the foreigners drink it,  which is flat white, which is usually an 18g dose, a double, 
and then something like 110g of milk in it. And so I pull the shot, I steam 
it in a little cup like that, salesman he's looking at it, 
the boss is looking at it, the boss says "I don't want to try it." The salesman drinks it, and 
he says "Boss you got to try this." No boss you got to try this. So he takes it, he sips it, and 
he jumps out of the seat and he 
goes: "Now I understand." And he runs out. And he comes back with all these 
single origin light roast beans. Turns out he's a pourover guy, and he 
drinks filtered coffee light roasted beans, and he is using good stuff and 
he himself likes fruity flavors, he likes to not have 
unpleasant, bad flavors. At the same time, there's a commercial 
reality that he needs to supply dark 
roasted beans in Turin for his market. And so I quite like his beans, because they're made from the 
perspective of someone who's 
trying to still have some fruit, not just burn the hell out of his beans, and knows how to taste good 
coffee yet respects his tradition. So Eurocaf is the brand. However, if you're outside of Europe, they 
are sold on Amazon, but they're old. They're not great. So and even in Europe, you have to find 
a distributor, because they need to be 
roasted in the last 2 or 3 weeks. If you buy 10 kilos from him, no 
problem. You'll get them the day after 
they're roasted, you can freeze them. So this is Eurocaf here, and that's what we're using. There are plenty of other obviously 
roasts out there, roasters out there but you want to find someone who 
is, in my opinion, roasting fresh, selling them fresh, not a lot of oils on the beans. This is probably the biggest thing is open 
the bag, smell it, does it smell good. If you smell off flavors. And the most common off flavor with 
dark roast is going to be oil going rancid. And that means that they 
overroasted it, the oils came 
out, and it possibly isn't fresh, because the overroasted 
oils will go rancid really fast. There's kind of nothing you can 
do if you buy rancid coffee. So please never buy coffee 
beans from a grocery store, because it's going to be old, 
especially with dark roasts. Do you agree with that? Yes. Okay. Very much so. Alright, that is it, that's all the questions. Thanks. Next week, it's going to be 
medium roasted beans, which is a wider gamut, because 
that's medium light to medium dark.