Today's livestream is going to be 
all about light-roasted coffee beans 
using a large, flat burr grinder.  Now, that's a combination 
that's often used. That's why we're doing 
two concepts at once. And instead of dialing in one profile, 
we're going to use five profiles, all of which are profiles that are 
commonly used for light roasted beans, so these are the 5 most common ones. The five profiles we're going to do, in 
order, are the Gentle and Sweet. That's often people's introduction to 
the Decent Espresso machine, especially 
if they're doing light roasts. Extramundo Dos, which is the 
extremely popular light-roast profile. Next, the Adaptive Version 2. The Blooming espresso, which is one 
of the earliest profiles to make a name 
for Decent Espresso from Scott Rao. And then finally another Scott Rao profile, 
the Allongé. So what I'm going be doing,   which is a little bit different is -- 
because we have such a kind of 
aggressive schedule for   today -- five different shots. We're going 
to probably take an hour to do this live. And I'm going to talk — hopefully 
not at all between the shots — because 
the goal is once this goes   on YouTube and it's saved, I'm going 
to cut out the boring bits where 
we're just making   coffee. So let's do Gentle and Sweet. 
This is the first profile that is 
recommended when you   first buy the Decent Espresso machine. 
It says make your first espresso 
with Gentle and Sweet.   And there's a few reasons I made 
this profile. So first of all, it is 
a traditional espresso   profile. No long pre-infusion. It just 
fills the head space, goes to pressure, 
makes espresso. What   makes this Gentle and Sweet is the 
fact that it's six bar of pressure. 
Now this is one of the very   first light-roast espressos that 
I had that was any good. I went 
to a place called Macao,   which is a big gambling hot spot, 
and there was a cafe called Blooms 
there. And they had a modified   La Marzocco machine that made a 
six-bar espresso. Now this is 10 years 
ago, before we were shipping,   before anyone was doing profiling. 
And it was good, and I thought, 
okay. That was the first   time I'd had less than nine bar, 
and it made an acceptable 
light-roasted espresso. So Gentle   and Sweet is there for a couple 
reasons. One, for light roasts, lower 
pressure is going to mean less   channeling. Light-roasted coffees 
will tend to resist pressure less 
well. And so if you channel,   it's going to be sour, It's going to 
be watery. It won't taste good. So 
less pressure, good. However,   why is it 6 bar? It's 6 bar 
because generally under 4 bar, 
you're not making any crema.   You're not really making espresso. 
The flavors that come out tend 
to be more drip coffee. So   espresso I generally think of as 
being between 6 and 9.5 bar. 
Gentle and Sweet   is on the low end of that, at 6. 
Now Gentle and Sweet is also 
recommended to people just   starting out for two other reasons. 
One less a problem nowadays, 
but when we launched the DE1,   there were a number of grinders 
out there with plastic burrs. They 
were not very good. They   didn't grind very fine, and Gentle 
and Sweet did not need as fine a 
grind as things like Blooming   and Adaptive. And the other is 
that when you're first starting out, 
generally you don't have very   good puck-prep skills, puck 
preparation skills. And Gentle and 
Sweet, with six bar of pressure,   demanded less of you. So, let's 
go ahead. Bunch of rules about what 
we're going to do today. We're   going to use beans. They're 
called Chelchele. They're from 
L'Alchimiste coffee in Bordeaux,   France. So C H E L C H E L E, 
Chelchele. And we are using them 
They are light, but not   ultra light. So there's no cocoa 
flavors, no roast flavors, but they're 
not a super-challenging bean,   either. And we want to use them 
for all these because it'll taste 
good in all these different   approaches. I just spoke to the 
head roaster at L'Alchimiste, and they're 
going to be sending us some   ultra-light beans. We're going to 
do a separate episode about the 
challenges that those pose.   So 18 gram doses, always the 
same bean. On this grinder, which 
is a 98-millimeter flat burr grinder, we   are doing the slowest RPM, the 
slowest rotation. And the reason is 
the higher the RPM on a grinder,   the more fines you create. And 
with light-roasted coffee, generally 
you're looking for clarity of   flavor, not so much body, not so 
much thickness. And the more fines 
you have, the more you're going   to have an uneven extraction. 
You're going to have the larger 
particles extracted one way,   and the fine particles extracted 
much more. And that tends to create 
a muddy flavor. Also, those   fines will end up in the cup 
creating a kind of silty thing. So 
the slowest rotation is what you   want on your grinder, if you have 
speed control, if you're doing light 
or ultra-light beans. And we're going to be spraying the beans 
with a little bit of water. That is also   highly recommended with light 
roast and, sorry -- highly 
recommend with flat burr grinders.   All flat burr grinders create static. 
Don't blame the manufacturer. 
That's just how it is.  And one little spray, it's called 
the "Ross Droplet Technique," RDT 
will neutralize that.   You don't want to use generally 
the spray if you're using the 
Niche, but we're not using   Niche today. We're using this 
beast. Okay. Let's make an espresso. 
And I'm going to zip it while   he does that. We've just made 
a Gentle and Sweet espresso. And 
this was quite successful. It is   meant to be a fast shot. There is 
no pre-infusion. There's no hole. 
There's no dripping. It's an   espresso in a traditional way. 
What that means is lots of fast flow. 
The flow would continue at   a high rate if it could in a 
traditional machine. But what happens 
is the puck compresses, slows the   flow down and then out it goes. 
Now because the pressure is constant 
which is what you see here,   at six bars, the flow rate goes up. 
Now why does the flow rate go up? 
It goes up because   about 20% of the material in 
the coffee puck is ending up in 
the drink. And as the puck   is eroding and losing material, 
it's losing puck resistance, and 
so flow rate's going up. This is   all quite normal. We do not want 
this to be a long shot. If it takes 
30 seconds with a light roast,   it's going to taste really overextracted. 
So, nice fast flow. Just rule of thumb:   light roasted coffee wants either a long 
pre-infusion or fast flow. Okay, just to   repeat again: light-roasted coffee, 
you want either a long pre-infusion 
or a fast flow rate.   And the reason for that is 
light-roasted coffee doesn't give up 
its coffee material so easily.   Not as easily as darker roasts. So here 
we've got 2 ml/sec, ending up a hair over   3 ml/s. I really wouldn't want to be down 
here in 0.5 or 1. I've seen people do   that. That would be fine with 
a darker roast. Not for this. Let's 
get a spoon out and get a taste. What do you taste, Mark? 
[spill] oh that was not very good. Thanks. What do you taste? 
I've got this mucked up. I'm good. 
Okay Um, it's very so...   I can taste peach, uh red apple. 
So it's red, it's almost like a 
very ripe fruit kind of taste,   but as the name suggests, it's 
gentle, actually. Mhm. So even 
though we are putting out 18 grams   in, 33 grams out -- but it's not 
those espresso very intense, in 
your face, that kind of mouth   feel. I agree. I'd say I'm going to play the 
human refractometer. It feels like an 18,   maybe 19% extraction. And so 
it isn't super high TDS, which 
is Total Dissolved Solids.   It's not super concentrated. 
It's quite easy to drink, the 
acidity is under control. It's super   pleasant. Like if this was 
your first Decent Espresso shot, 
and you had just bought it,   and you bought light-roasted 
beans, you'd be very pleasantly 
surprised. We can do better,   but this is a really good... 
I'd say "training bicycle." So 
I'm quite happy with that. I don't   think I have anything to say. 
Let's move on to Extramundo Dos, 
and once it's made, I'll   explain what the story is behind 
this profile. You can just go ahead. 
And so that was a 1.4 grind,   arbitrary number on this, and 
what is the grind on the 1.5 ...1.4 
before. Okay. So same grind on   Extramundo Dos. All right. We have 
just made an Extramundo Dos 
espresso. Again, 18 grams.   Same grind setting of 1.4 that 
we did for Gentle and Sweet. And 
if you compare the curves, you'll   see it looks a lot like Gentle 
and Sweet. Look at this. It's aiming 
for a six bar of pressure,   right, and then the flow went up, 
though not as much. Now the 
main difference is it's got   a pre-infusion phase here with 
a pause. So where the Gentle and 
Sweet filled up the the group head   and then went immediately to 
pressurize, this has got a few seconds 
here where it lets the water   just sit. There's some dripping 
coming. This is dripping coming out 
here. So pre-infusion draining   down going up to 6 bars. 
Didn't quite hit 6 bars with the same 
grind setting. And the reason   it didn't is because that extra 
pre-infusion is going to require 
a finer grind if you want to get   the same kind of pressure. So 
Gentle and Sweet, because it 
smacks the coffee puck, is going to   create more puck resistance. 
Now I don't really understand why 
that is, but it's absolutely the   case that if you get rid of 
pre-infusion, you get higher pressures. 
So let's go ahead and taste it. Tell me what you think. The acidity is way more 
pronounced than Gentle and Sweet. 
It feels like shorter in my mouth.   Shorter. Okay. Like it drops off faster. Okay. 
Mhm. Yeah. Overall, it's more sharp. Yeah,   It's.. it is a quick shot. They're 
both about the same amount of time. 
I actually I find this a bit   fruitier, a bit juicier. I personally 
enjoy this one more. And what 
else would I say about it? It   feels a little bit higher 
concentration. Like the TDS is 
a little bit higher. Mhm. And It's   a bit bitey-er. I feel like this is 
less gentle. I don't know whether 
what Mark is sensing is kind   of less of an extraction, less 
flavor is caused by the variation 
of shot to shot, because I would   expect this little pre-infusion to 
extract a bit more out of these 
beans. Now, if you've got beans   that don't have any defects, 
and that what we're doing is by 
the way -- sorry, if you don't have   beans with any defects, then 
you want to extract more and more. 
If you have beans with defects,   you want to extract less. 
And I've ordered these profiles from 
extracting less to extracting   more. And so Gentle and Sweet 
extracts the least. Extramundo Dos 
has a short pre-infusion. Adaptive   has a much longer pre-infusion. 
Blooming has a crazy long 
pre-infusion. Allongé is just lots   of fast flow. So we're going to 
extract more and more out of 
the beans as we go through.So   the other thing that's going on 
here is that these shots are all 
increasing in TDS and concentration.   So Gentle and Sweet is going to 
extract the least, Extramundo more, 
Adaptive even more, Blooming is   going to be the highest -- probably 
between 24 and 26% extraction as 
opposed to this in   the 18-19 range. Allongé is actually 
going to drop things back to about 
22-23%. It doesn't extract as   much as Blooming does. So 
let's go ahead and do Adaptive v2 next. 
That looks all right. We just   made an espresso shot from 
Adaptive Version 2. Now, Adaptive 
originally when I launched   it was called "Adaptive for Medium 
Roasts." And I wanted to try and 
figure out how to make Adaptive   work with light roasts. And 
there's a couple changes I made. 
The biggest is that Adaptive,   like Londinium, used to keep 
pressure during that dripping stage. 
But what I found is that   that worked fine with grinders 
like the Niche, where there's 
lots of fines that would keep   the puck integrity really high. 
But if you had pressure on the puck 
during a long dripping stage,   then the water would just 
gush out. And then at the end 
of it, you try and raise pressure,   it would just gush. And so I 
changed it to make Adaptive V2, 
where there's no pressure.   And so what happens here is 
I say no pressure, I don't maintain 
pressure. So we fill the group   head we hit a high pressure, 
and then water is just turned off. 
And then the pressure just   decreases on its own. And this 
kind of very steep decrease is very 
common with a large burr grinder,   which is to say the water just does 
come out. You can see the water 
coming out here. There's a lot   of dripping. Okay, here we 
had quite a fair amount of dripping. 
So with a medium roast,   I would grind finer. And I 
would want this dripping to be 
in the 4 to 8 grams of total.   Here we've got 17 grams. We did the 
same thing for a video a week or two 
ago, where we did 16 grams,   and we found it tasted really 
good to have a lot of dripping. 
Just say a bit coarse coarser coffee   is going to extract more easily. 
I know that's a bit counterintuitive. 
You would think that finer   particles have more surface 
area, but the problem is that everything 
gets kind of clogged, and you   get less water flow. So coarser 
means faster water flow. More 
water flow means clean solvent,   means pulling out coffee material. 
And then what's happening here with 
Adaptive and the reason it's   called Adaptive is there's 
a pressure rise that times out after 
7 seconds. So it rises pressure,   according to this goal, but after 7 
seconds gives up and adapts to the 
coarseness of the grind. In   this case about 6.8 bar. That's 
what I've got here. In fact, 6.8 is 
what it says. This is   the new skin, "Streamline." That's 
telling us the peak was 6.8 in the 
pre-infusion phase. And then   it switches to stable flow. And 
you see coffee is coming out 
very quickly. And then it switches   to stable flow. And you see 
coffee is coming out very quickly 
Um I spoke to Jonathan Gagné about   this very, very short extraction 
phase. And what he told me 
was with these flat burr grinders,   the coffee extracts explosively. That's 
the word he used: "explosively." And what   he means by that is that after 
all this time, 'cause bear in mind 
we're now 16-18 seconds in,   we're finally now applying some 
pressure, and the coffee has had water 
contact this entire time. So   it's just soaking up, soaking up, 
getting really full of coffee. You 
apply some pressure, and it   just comes out super fast. And 
you can see here, the pressure 
decreased quickly, and it didn't   really have a chance to get 
crashing in pressure because the 
shot's over. Let's have a taste. What are you feeling? I find it has a longer aftertaste 
than the previous one. And it 
has also quite a bit of   layers, like still very fruity, but I 
think I like Adaptive so far. What 
about body mouth feel? It's   a little, I feel like it's thinner than than 
Gentle and Sweet. Like it's fine. I found it   thicker. Ah yeah, that's fine. 
Yeah. Two people can disagree to 
agree or agree to disagree. Um,   I'm 20-30 seconds in, and 
I'm still getting flavors coming 
out. Stone fruits are coming   out. So you're right: Peach 
flavors. I think I got pineapple 
at the start, I don't know if I   have red fruits or not. I think 
you were right with peach originally, 
but it's pretty wide and   I'm happy with that. And I think 
that's really the goal with a really 
good bean is to try and not get   spiky extractions with single 
flavors, but to try and actually get 
as much roundness as you can. Say   as many different things, and 
hopefully flavors in balance. That's 
a really good extraction. I don't   get any dustiness, I don't get 
any "off" flavors. The one thing I 
would say here is our extraction   of 18 in and 33 out, I think 
we could have pulled this out 
longer. I think instead of this   extraction of 1.78, I'm normally 
doing 2.3 as an extraction. Now 
what you want to do with coffees,   when you're deciding what ratio 
to go with, is first start with a 
lower ratio. Like 1:2 is fine. And if it's tasting a bit 
old, dry, a bit filter coffee in a 
bad way, shorten the   ratio. By shortening the ratio, 
you're going to take less flavors out. 
And especially some of the   bad flavors are going to get 
extracted toward the end of the 
extraction. You're just going to get   rid of them. And the fact of the 
matter is: most coffees have some 
"off" flavors. We're very lucky.   That's why we work with 
L'Alchimiste in Bordeaux. Their coffees 
tend not to have any defects. So   we're looking to push the 
extractions as far as we can go. 
Given that this is tasting just great,   and it has a lot of mouth feel, 
I would -- we're not going to do 
it now, but -- I would extend   this ratio out to 2.3, I might even 
go to 2.5. See what this pressure 
does. If this pressure   really crashes, and at the end, 
I'm at 2 bar, I've gone too far. 
I'm going to start getting   bad flavors around that 2 bar. 
But as long as I'm, say, above 4 
bar, just keep going. If I   have some shots that have 
these nice lines like this, and I have 
other shots that are crashing,   that's puck prep. That's what's 
causing that variation. If every 
single shot has the same line,   then that's just the reality of 
what it is like. We accidentally 
didn't change the grind size,   and so we said "What the heck 
let's just pull another Adaptive." 
But this time at a 2.3 ratio.   So 18 grams of beans and 
42 grams out. Things I'll say about this 
shot. One is the dripping is almost   identical, which is good. That 
means the grind is not moving 
about. And that's good. But I was   surprised we got slightly less 
pressure on this, which tends to 
indicate there was some the puck   prep was not as good as the 
previous one. Or maybe we've just 
gone a little bit coarser, but that's   not the case, because all three of 
these shots have been at the 
same grind setting. So we don't   have any grind wandering. The 
other thing to note is pressure started 
to go down and started to go   up slightly. The burrs on this 
are not SSP. We had SSP burrs on 
it, but we were finding it hard   to grind fine enough for espresso. 
Hard enough to… We were finding 
it hard with the SSP burrs   to grind to espresso fineness. The 
manufacturer is working on their own 
burrs, which they say are as   good as SSP. Everyone says that 
“Yeah, we have installed them.” 
They do grind much finer but   they do have more fines than 
the SSP ever did. So we're kind of 
trading one thing for another. We   can grind finer but we have more 
fines. And the reason I know that 
there's more fines is because   this pressure started to go up. 
That means there was some fines 
migration with the SSP burrs. We   didn't see that for quite a long 
time. It took a a long shot to 
see any pressure flick up. Give me your thoughts Mark. I find it very similar to a 
previous Adaptive, that the 
aftertaste is quite long. The layers   just keep coming out, but some 
of the fruitiness, the acidity feels 
a little bit more pronounced   than Mhm than than the previous 
one. Yeah. For me, I don't like 
this as much. Mhm. I feel like   I'm not a fan of filtered coffee. So 
if you are a fan of filtered   coffee, you might prefer this. 
Just to say that straight outright. 
Um it's got a bit of dryness to   it, and it doesn't have as much 
of that brightness that I really 
like that is more like an espresso.   So this is having pulled it longer, 
it's tasting a bit more like 
filtered coffee. So I also find   it a bit more muted. The mouth 
feels decreased, as well. It's a little 
bit thinner on the the palate.   Probably the TDS is decreased, 
too, because we put more water in, 
and as the shot continues to   extract, it's going out. So for 
me, I wouldn't drink it this way. 
I would pull back on on the   ratio and try to get back to that 
fruitiness as these were progressing. 
For me, Adaptive V2 with   that shorter ratio, the 1.8, was great. I had 
all the fruitiness, I had a lot of mouth feel,   but I also had a lot of acidity. For me, that 
was kind of the ideal light-roast espresso,   which is kind of the holy grail. 
This is the reason that we actually 
made this machine, was   to try and make espresso with light-
roasted beans. So I was really 
happy with that. Now, people who   come from a filter coffee 
background with light ultra-lite beans 
probably — that's not =what   they're looking for. They're probably 
looking for something with more 
extraction, more length, and   that's what we're going to try next. 
We're going to do a Blooming 
espresso. We have just made a   Blooming espresso, and I was 
watching it as it was extracting. 
And I told Mark I think it's going to   be too fine. And the reason I thought 
it was going to be too fine is -- I was 
watching the dripping,   and it was barely dripping. 
Actually before it even dripped, 
I had an inkling it was too fine,   because when the water came in 
here and stopped, I should immediately 
see the bottom of the puck   fully saturated. And I didn't. It 
took 3 or 4 seconds before any 
water appeared on the bottom.   And then it slowly coalesced, 
and then maybe 10-15 seconds 
in, I started to get my first   drips. Actually it wasn't until about 
30 seconds in that I started to 
get some dripping, and very   little dripping. So I'm looking 
at the scale about 8 grams of 
dripping by the time the pressure rise   happens. And here we didn't even 
get a gram And now that's because 
we made a big leap in grind   settings. You didn't purge, right? 
No. Okay. So that's probably I'm 
going to guess what it is,   going from a very fine to a very 
coarse setting, there was probably 
still some very fine coffee   grounds on the burrs. And that's 
going to then mix in very much 
like fines would, and overall   make the whole thing too fine. 
The other thing, there's a bunch 
of things I can tell you here,   that it's much too fine. So first of 
all, it needs to finish here in like 
10-12 seconds. So Blooming   is an extremely long pre-infusion. 
It is the highest extraction that 
you can get currently from   any espresso profile. We've seen 
as high as 28 even 29% extractions, 
but 23 to 24% are typical.   Now bear in mind, you go to a cafe, 
you're looking at 18 to 19%. of the 
coffee material in a cup. So   23% is very high. Scott Rao, when 
he demonstrated this at World of 
Coffee Berlin, there's a famous   video where he makes it for James 
Hoffman. He was measuring 28% 
extractions, which are crazy high.   And he was using a super 
weird Kenyon on top of it. So it 
was amazing, but it wasn't really   coffee. It was some new thing. 
Let's taste it. And what I'm going to 
expect is that because we have a   essentially a brick wall of pressure here, 
it's going to be really muted. At the same   time that it might be quite 
acidic from the long pre-infusion. 
But let's see, I could be wrong. Yeah it's very muted. So Mhm. Yeah. The acidity or 
the layer that we had before at the 
previous is all gone. What's   interesting though is you've got 
quite a lot in the cup. 60 grams. 
And there's still quite   a lot of extraction. So there's a lot, there 
is some mouth feel. There's a lot of flavor,   it's just kind of muted It's a 
very unexciting coffee now. Mhm. 
Which is a shame. I think we've   just made another Blooming 
espresso. We've gone from a 
0.5 grind to a 0.8 grind. And it   looked better. The water did appear 
on the bottom much, much sooner. 
We had 2.3 g of dripping when I   looked at the scale before the 
pressure ramped up. But we're 
still too fine. We're still too fine,   because you can see very little 
dripping here. I was aiming for 
8 grams, and we also hit max   pressure. The flow rate was not 
able to achieve the goal because we 
hit maximum pressure. It was   only after the puck started to 
erode that we started to decline. 
Now it's good news that   we did decline. So we weren't 
too far off, and we weren't too 
far off on achieving the flow.   I'd expect this to be drinkable, 
but it's not going to be a great 
expression. I really want   this pressure here to never 
hit a brick wall of the maximum 
pressure allowed. So ideally it   goes up and then it comes down. 
And it's probably going to come 
down really dramatically. So let's,   I'm going to say a few more 
words, and then we'll make 
another shot. We're going to do a   1.0 grind instead of a zero. We want 0.5 
for the first two, 0.8 for the next one,   1.0 for the next one. Here we're going 
to taste this and see what we think. Doing the wrong spoons, I am stirring the 
crema in as I try to taste. What's your thoughts? I think the acidity is started to 
to come out. It's less muted 
than than the first one.   So that's definitely we're 
going in the right direction. 
Yeah, totally agree. That dryness,   that boringness is going away. Not just 
the acidity, but the fruit's starting to come   back. I would be okay drinking 
this now. It's not an amazing coffee, 
but it is totally acceptable. We're now going to do one more 
Blooming again. coarser. We have just made 
a Blooming espresso at the coarsest 
grind so far. This is a 1.0 grind.   And there was a lot that I liked 
about this. So first I saw water 
appear on the bottom of   the puck almost immediately. I was really 
happy objectively with Mark's puck prep,   with Mark's puck prep, because I saw 
dripping everywhere. And it didn't,   it didn't start from one side. The 
previous shot when I looked at the 
bottom I saw water come from   the side and then it was more 
dripping from one side. This was 
really very even. We had as it said   it popped up 6.7 grams of 
dripping, I was aiming for eight. 
Now that's just a rough guideline.   That's it's not an objective 
measurement, because really what I 
wanted was this pressure to be   between 6 and 9 bar. So 
we've gone now slightly coarser 
than I normally would want   to go with this. I still got some 
crema, which is interesting, even 
though the pressure only   rose to 4 bar. So I would expect 
this to be quite fruity, very 
extracted. And if there are   any flaws in this, which I don't think there 
are in the bean, they should come out now. Tell me your thoughts on the flavor. It the aftertaste, it's quite it's quite 
long, actually. And also acidity 
and sweetness it comes   out quite balanced this time 
than the previous one. Okay. I 
am not the judge. So I am not a   certified taster. So my favorite 
still just for reference, I love that 
Adaptive. So that's what   I'm looking for there. And when 
we get to Allongé, that's going to 
be the kind of shot I like,   because I really like fruity. And 
this feels very nicely extracted, 
but I feel like it tastes   kind of ...sorry, but brown. It tastes a bit 
like full-bodied coffee. And it's it's lacking   some distinctiveness for me. 
So I don't have that brightness. 
I do have a bit of mouth feel to it,   which is interesting, because 
there's a lot in the cup. I feel 
like if we pulled this with a   little more pressure, we might 
get more of that fruit back. And 
so I'm going to stop. We've done   four of these. That's enough 
for today. But that's what I'm 
trying to get to. Now I want   to point out some things 
about Blooming. Just if you are 
frustrated by puck prep, by your grinder,   just do not do Blooming. Blooming 
is the hardest shot to get right. I mean we've got a really great grinder. 
His puck prep is looking great. The beans are good. And still we're 
struggling with this profile, because it 
has this incredibly long pre-infusion, which requires it to be very fine. 
But if it's too fine, it goes over the max. If it's not fine enough, we don't 
get enough pressure. The reward 
is you get extremely extracted coffee. So if you have very expensive beans 
and you've got a fair amount of them, 
then you can play with Blooming. So we're working with Blooming 
right now because we have 
3 kilos of these nice beans. So we can try lots of things, but if 
you had 250 grams of beans, 
please do not try Blooming. You're just going to waste the beans 
and that'll be kind of a sad thing. I would say if you don't have a lot of 
beans, go for Extramundo Dos. If you have a little bit 
more, maybe Adaptive. what people say about Extramundo 
Dos: When I did a tour with Scott 
Rao throughout Europe, we asked the people who said that they 
were consistently making good 
espresso what profiles they were using. And Extramundo Dos if they 
were light-roast people came 
out over and over again. Adaptive also came out 
as a very common one. So the other thing I'll say about 
Blooming is, if you for example 
have light or ultra light canyons canyons are very hard you might not 
be able to grind fine enough. You 
might in fact kill your grinder. I have had grinders seize up 
regularly overheat. Um I with my Weber grinders, I 
love Weber grinders, but the motors 
are not the most powerful in the world. In order to do Blooming espresso 
with Webers, I've had to turn the grinder 
on and slowly feed the beans in. If I put the beans in at the 
beginning it just seized. So I still was able to make 
great coffee, but it was tough. You might also want to put a 
paper filter on the bottom of 
your portafilter for Blooming. We're having some luck here. We had 
some nice sustained extraction, but it's quite common 
to have this pressure crash and some paper on the bottom of the 
the portafilter basket under the coffee 
will help that pressure from crashing. If you have a new grinder and the 
burrs are not yet seasoned, especially 
the case that paper is going to help. So there we are with that. And finally we're going to make 
an Allongé espresso next. We've just made an Allongé espresso, and 
the grind setting mark on that was 1.8. So that is by far the coarsest. Now 
when you make the Allongé, don't be 
too upset if you see some channeling. This is a very fast flow rate. It is 
the fastest flow rate espresso 
that currently makes. It's 4.5 milliliters per second. He's dialed this in really nicely, and the 
puck prep looked really good. Now how 
do I know the puck prep was good? Well the pressure didn't crash. Now I did see some channeling, 
and there was like a consistent needle 
coming out at the same time, that was 
coming out the center. Be great if that didn't happen. That's going 
to add a little bit of dilution, a little bit of 
acidity, but the shot looks quite good. And what's really interesting 
about Allongé is despite very fast 
water flow we're getting crema. And that's because it's pressure 
that creates crema. And the fast water flow is 
also going to extract quite a lot. And I'm going to let this sit here 
while I babble a little bit because 
another aspect of Allongé is the very fast flow and the 
high temperature means that the coffee that's coming 
out is the hottest also of any espresso. So you have a lot of volume and it's very hot because it's 
flowing really quickly through. 
So the coffee puck doesn't have 
any time to cool the the water, and you're adding a lot of hot water to it. So don't mind if you put 
it into a large ceramic or transfer something else or swirl it a bit 
or just let it sit while it cools for a second. Uh with the spoon it'll be okay. We do have another video where 
we talked about knowing that Allongé 
has been dialed in correctly. But just to summarize, it's 
supposed to be 4.5 ml/s, and I 
want that blue line to actually be hit. If I hit the pressure max, which I did 
here, the flow will adjust down. But here the grind is 
one little smidge too fine. Really just barely, so because 
only 3 or 4 seconds enough puck 
erosion happened that we started 
to get a pressure decrease. And we didn't crash, which is great. I do think these burrs have a bit of fines in 
them, because I'm seeing this taper out. If I had done this on the Niche, it would 
have gone back up like that. And I think if I did this on an SSP I would 
have seen the pressure do this. That would have been fine. That's a 
characteristic of those burrs. Um let us taste this. What do you think? Some I think it's quite gentle. I would say 
it's a little bit muted for me compared to   like if I compare it to Adaptive, 
that one's way more pronounced. 
Yeah I agree with you. Uh   I mean first of all the dilution on 
an Allongé is about twice the 
strength of filter coffee. So it   is stronger If you're used to filtered coffee 
you're going to find that too strong. But if   you're used to espresso, you're 
going to find that quite gentle. I 
was always surprised also that   Allongé -- despite the really 
fast flow rate -- is not especially 
acidic. Mhm. And look at the cup.   Uh if you compare this cup 
to the others, right, look at all the 
spray on Blooming and very little   spray. So even though we had 
a bit of channeling, it was pretty 
under control. So I think this is   a nice extraction. I think this is 
not the right coffee for this. I 
think I'd want to use something   like a natural that had just 
crazy fruitiness. That would be 
a lot of fun. Anything with crazy   fermentation, Allongé would be 
great. This is a really clean washed 
coffee. Mhm. And what we've   done with Allongé is make a very 
pleasant drink, but nothing that 
wows. Of these, which were your   favorites? I would go for my top one 
would be the Adaptive and the close 
second would be Extramundo   Dos. Yeah, I agree with you. I 
agree with you. What's interesting 
is they look quite different   right. Extramondo Dos looks 
like Gentle and Sweet, but with 
a short pre-infusion, whereas   Adaptive had a much longer 
pre-infusion and and a pressure 
curve. But they gave different,   they gave uh not that different 
results which I thought was really 
interesting. So those are the   main profiles that I would use 
with light roasted coffee. Now of 
course this is a changing field.   There's lots of other profiles that 
you can try, but with this range of 
profiles you should be able   to make tasty coffee from any light 
or ultra-light bean And that's the 
summary of this session today.