In today's live stream, we're going to do 
five profiles for medium roasted beans. Now, this is what I drink actually mostly, and so you would have 
thought that I would do it first, but this is actually the 
most difficult of all of them. And that's because medium roasted 
encompasses a very wide compass 
from medium light to medium dark. I know they both say medium in them, but let me just define what I 
mean by light, medium and dark, and you'll see where the problem is. So for light roasts, I think of any bean that 
doesn't taste of the roasting process. So in the bag description, not 
only will you not see chocolate, but 
you shouldn't see caramel either. You might see pear. Pear would be a flavor sometimes that 
people give for a very light roasting flavor, but that would be as dark as you'd see it, and you definitely wouldn't see toffee, 
nor would you see bitter chocolate. Medium would be kind 
of bang in the middle, meaning there's no fruity light flavor. Something that's actually positively 
medium is just going to be chocolate. Maybe they're going to 
talk about red fruits, maybe. And then dark you're having bitter 
chocolate and burnt notes as well.  They might not say burnt notes on the 
bag, but you can certainly smell them. So the challenge is that 
medium is right in the middle,  because medium light is going to give 
you flavors of the roasting process. So you're going to have 
right in the middle chocolate, darker you might have toffee, and lighter you might have caramel, really light you might have pear. But that's where medium light is sitting 
is definitely giving you chocolate flavors, but no bitter chocolate, and then medium dark is 
going to be no fruit really at all. None of the fruity flavors 
are going to be there, but none of the char either. So if you're a fan of dark roasted coffee, 
and you're wondering what to try next, I would probably suggest 
you try medium dark roasted, because you'll still get that 
bitter chocolate that you like, but what you will no longer have is the 
burn flavors, the oxidation, the rancidity 
that comes from oils coming out. Medium is kind of the 
most boring of all of them. When you talk about a medium roasted 
bean, you probably talk about 
something that's just comfort food. If it's an espresso, you just sip it 
and it's pleasant, if it's a milk 
espresso drink, it's just a nice base. So generally, people are talking 
about medium dark for the 
bitter chocolate flavors, or medium light - medium 
is almost like an insult, it just doesn't really sit anywhere. Most people who get on this 
espresso adventure already are 
in a medium to dark world, and as they buy a nicer machine, they tend to go lighter 
and lighter roast over time, and where they settle kind of depends 
on their tolerance for more difficult 
flavors, such as bitterness and acidity. And when I started, I was 
absolutely a fan of Italian roasts, and I didn't even drink medium, I just drank dark roasted coffee. That's what I liked when I milked it, and then way back when I would 
even add chocolate syrup to it. But as I got better at espresso, I started moving more towards 
the milk chocolate world, what I call, like, lint chocolate, 
where you have layers of chocolate, 
so you still have fruitiness, and you have a lot of complexity, but 
nothing unpleasant, still very comfortable. Where I personally have landed 
now is medium light, where I 
think a lot of people land. I think when we survey 
our customers face to face, we're mostly getting people in 
the medium, medium light world. In this video, we're going to talk 
about five different approaches, but here are the profiles from Default, a flow profile for milky drinks, but 
there's also a flow profile for espresso, Adaptive and Londinium, and then finally D-Flow. And D-Flow is kind of a category of its 
own, because it can be many profiles. And I'll talk about that a bit more. The reason I talked about 
what are medium beans is because how we extract them 
and what we're trying to do with 
them really affects what we do here. We're going to start with a Default profile, and the reason it's the Default 
profile is not because it's boring, 
but because it works. It's a very classic profile - can you hit settings and 
let's take a look at it? So here it is going to 8.6 six bar 
with a fast pre-infusion, coming down to 6 bar. Now, that's not that dissimilar 
to the Best Overall profile, but this is essentially the traditional 
lever profile when people would 
make a shot in 25 to say 35 seconds, take the cup away as it's 
starting to slow down, and it's just a very straightforward 
way to make great espresso. When I mean straightforward, I mean 
straightforward if you happen to have a 
$3,000 or $4,000 lever machine. Those of you with flat 9 bar machines 
can't achieve anything like this. So this is the default profile, 
because it does good things. The declining pressure profile 
here is going to automatically slow 
the shot down as it extracts, and it peaks for very little time here. And one of the things about this 
profile and the reason it's default is we have two different grinders here, a very large flat burr grinder that's 
not going to have many fines and then a Niche grinder that's 
going to have a lot of fines. More fines helps puck integrity. This Default profile works 
with either grinder. And the reason it works with either 
grinder is because it doesn't hold 
peak pressure for very long. And that peak pressure is when the puck 
integrity is going to be most stressed. And especially with this that doesn't 
have as many fines, the nicer grinder, you're more likely to have 
channeling at that point. So this profile very quickly moves on. Now, we could change this 
right here, this Rise and Hold, from 4 sec to something longer, if 
our puck integrity was holding. So the nice thing about this Default 
profile is it's meant to fiddle with. So you could change this if your puck 
integrity was holding really well. You could lower this pressure, if your 
puck integrity is falling apart here. So if you have, say, a grinder that you paid 
$300 US for, or let's say a hand grinder, those things will tend to not be 
able to survive high pressure. And so lowering this would 
be a way to deal with that. And then finally a very middle 
of the road temperature; this 
is 88°C for the extraction, which is a really nice temperature
for the medium world. Generally, you're going to lower 
that for darker roasts and you're going 
to increase it for um lighter roasts. So something like 92°C, even 
maybe 94°C for light roasts, and 88°C, going down to as low 
as 80°C for the very dark roasts. Alright, so that's the theory there. Are we all ready to pull a Default shot? Mhm. Ok, great. Yeah. And I've got two different beans 
here while Mark is going in here, and they're meant to illustrate the 
two different approaches. So this is from Dark Arts in London. Despite their name of Dark Arts, they're 
mostly in the light roast world, and this happens to be what 
I consider a medium dark bean. It's a bean... sorry, there's a lot written 
on the label here; chocolate, marzipan, cherry bramble. So the fact that there's chocolate 
and cherry automatically is telling 
me this is this is a darker roast. I mean cherry is also quite full flavor 
on the chocolate spectrum, it's not cherry and pineapple, 
you know, or cherry and mango or 
something a little bit fruity like that. And I thought this was a very good powerful 
shot when I made this for my partner. She finds it too intense. I have to put more milk in it. It extracts very fully. The more roasted a bean is, the more it's 
going to give up coffee flavor to the water and the more intense, like, 
the more the concentration 
of the espresso is going to be.  So darker roast, if you're going to milk 
it, you're also going to put more milk in. And then over here we've got some beans 
from L'Alchimiste in Bordeaux, France, and these are very much medium light. And they tell me the description 
here, okay, they say very little, they just say fruity and complex. And I don't really mind roasters who don't 
tell me what I'm supposed to taste. But definitely fruity and complex; 
they're not even making a nod in saying 
that it might be medium roast. So let's just get two cups, and I'm going to put some beans 
in, while Mark makes that shot. So we are using 18 g baskets 
like we do for all these. Let's get that top camera for a second. It's not a world of difference. This one is a bit lighter than this one. You can also see there's a few lighter 
beans, like this is quite a bit lighter, whereas in the Dark Arts one, 
it's kind of the other way around; you have some beans that 
are the same color as that and some other ones that 
are quite a bit darker. So in deciding, I'd literally 
be smelling them, and smell-wise, I'm just getting a 
whole lot of chocolate, I'm not getting much else there. And smell-wise caramel and a lot of fruitiness, 
like red wine fruits, red fruits, some tropical fruits, too. It's kind of amazing, given the 
roast colors are quite similar, how different this is smelling, and so this, though the color is telling 
me this is medium, it's smelling fruity. Now, it also means by looking at the color, I probably don't want to use any of 
the light roast extraction methods; it's going to over extract this, 
it's not going to be pleasant. So something more traditional. This would be what I serve to 
someone who comes in saying 
I like dark roasted coffee, just to see if I can pull them off of the 
rancid burn flavors and if they like it. If they're really traditional, they won't. But I'd like to see if I can pull dark 
roasted people to medium dark, 
because it removes a lot of the defects. Both these beans I should 
mention, nothing bad. So I open them and I'm smelling, 
like the most common defect I 
would get would be wet cardboard. Like that's a bad smell. How are we doing on the shots here? Here. That looks alright. So this is our Default shot here. So looking at this, we 
got some nice crema. And just going to do that. A reasonable amount of crema. These are the Dark Art beans. Mhm. Mhm. Go ahead. So what are you tasting there, Mark? I can taste it's quite intense. It just shows up right in the first sip, and dark chocolate, I would say, yeah. Do you taste any defects? We did dark roasts last week, 
how do you compare this to that? So compared to last week, 
I would say last week it's very easy that you end up with those 
kind of charcoal more heavier notes in that, and this is more your Belgian dark 
chocolate, those kind of chocolate pellets 
that you will use in baking, for example, so that's more pleasant, 
more delicate, I would say. Yeah. Yeah, I completely agree. For me, this actually is like 2/3 
of the flavor I had in those Italian 
dark roasted beans, are here, too. I've got absolutely baker's chocolate. I mean this is intense there's 
nothing light chocolate about this, this does not taste like 
artisanal chocolate, but there's a very slight hint of char in it, but it's like 1/10 of what 
the Italian bean had. Overall, I'd also say this just 
tastes way more expensive. I mean this...and it probably 
is 3 to 4 times the price per bean 
bag of the Italian roast. So what we're getting 
there is virtually no defects. Very powerful, I agree with you. There's nothing subtle about this, but if you like a medium to 
dark roasted chocolate milk, this is the coffee version of that. Mhm. I thought it was pretty full body, 
there's a little bit of acidity. Yeah. I mean, I think anyone who was a 
traditional espresso liker would go, 
"That's a traditional espresso." Mhm. And they'd be happy. Now, they might go, "So why should I 
spend a lot of money on this machine [laughing] if you've just made me 
a traditional espresso?" I mean one thing with the DE1 is 
definitely you know where your 
extraction goes wrong or goes right. Yeah. Yeah, and in fact so this was a fairly quick 
shot, which I'm really okay with on this. So it's a different style. So with this bean, we can 
pull it two different ways. We can pull it in a way that you and I 
prefer more, which is not quite as thick, and if there is some range of flavor in it, 
they'll be there and that would be faster. Right? So we've done 18g in 37g out here, and the puck integrity was really good. Puck integrity is always going to 
be good um with the darker roasts. They just make life easy. So he went up to 8.6 bar, declined, 
and then our flow rate increased, and you can see as the pressure went 
down, the flow rate flattened out. The other thing to know about this 
profile is it goes to 8.6 bar, not 9. Might be a small thing, but the 
lower pressure just stresses 
the machine a little bit less. Something that's not very well 
known is machines that claim to 
be 9 bar are actually about 8.6 bar. And the reason for that is they 
measure their pressure at it's pump, pressure sensor and then what's 
called a flow constrictor or gicleur and then boiler and then it 
goes to the group head. And in that chain, there's a bit of air 
space in the boiler or anything else could 
happen and you lose a bit of pressure. And the reason I know it's 
8.6 is because at the specialty 
coffee association competitions they recalibrate the machines, so 
that at the group head they're 9 bar, and generally, they find they're 
around 8.5 bar when they are 
supposedly 9 bar machines. So that's why I did 8.6 bar, because 
we measure at the group and I was 
trying to do traditional espresso. One thing to note also, I don't 
bring the settings up, but you generally 
don't want to go above 9.5 bar. When people say "Why was 
espresso made at nine bar?" I 
puzzled over that for a long time, and it was James Hoffman, who 
challenged me at one point, because he'd read something that said 
"What do you think about this issue that you get more compression and 
less flow as pressure goes up?" And I said "That doesn't make sense. If pressure goes up, flow should go up." Right? The harder you push, the more 
stuff should come out. And so I had a knee-jerk reaction to him, and then the next day, I 
realized we can test this. And the community did, in fact, John 
Weiss did - Weiss Distribution Technique. He's an owner and very active, and he did a test at 
various different pressures, and what he showed was at about 9.5 bar, 
increasing pressure would decrease flow. It's just the opposite of what you thought. Until 9.5 bar, increased 
pressure increases flow, 9.5 bar it decreases, and at 10.5 bar, 
it almost shut down completely. And what's interesting is you go up 9.5, 10.5 and it's almost slow, and then if you 
go back to 9.5, the flow increases again. And then back up at that. And the reason that test was 
important is one of the theories was that the high pressure was permanently 
warping the beans and somehow making 
them go into a more organized fashion. But we saw that wasn't the 
case, because when we lowered 
the pressure from 10.5 to 9.5, the flow went up again 
back to 10.5, down 9.5. And so the current theory that's 
as good as any is that the bean grounds themselves are essentially 
distorting under the higher pressure, and when the pressure is then 
released, they undistort and go 
back to their normal shape. Okay, so that's a long way of 
saying why are we at 9 bar, because at 9.5 bar your flow rate 
decreases as you increase pressure. So 9 bar is a really safe place to 
go as high pressure as you can, before the physical reality of 
coffee starts to break down, where increased pressure gets less out. So that's why we're at 9 bar, 
reality is around 8.6 bar, and we generally find that the 
puck compresses around 4 bar, and so between 4 and 9 bar 
is the world of espresso. Generally, people like the 
flavors starting at 6 bar. That's what people think of 
as being the range of espresso. So the profile we just saw 
went to 8.6 bar, lowered to 6, because it's staying inside that range 
of what is actually still espresso. So a bit of theory for us there, that was the Default profile, 
great place to start, especially in the world of medium beans. We're not probably going to get 
a huge amount of fruit from this, 
because there's no pre-infusion. The medium light beans, being 
lighter roasted, are going to want 
some more time soaking. So let's go ahead and do the 
flow profile for milky drinks. So we're at 1.7 ml/s. So there's two flow profiles: flow 
profile for milky drinks and flow 
profile for espresso. They have different flow rates. But the different flow rates derive 
from different grind sizes. Here, we're going to want to try and 
make an espresso, so this is not 
a profile that's used that much. But it's a good theoretical shot. What I mean is there's theory backing 
it up, which is constant flow is 
desirable in the extraction of flavors. The tricky bit about this profile is you 
have to match the flow rate to the grind 
size or the dose, the combination. So this was set to 
1.2 ml/s for milky drinks, and that's because it's assuming a 
darker roast and quite finely ground, and a shot time in the 40 
to 50 second range. So if you had a medium dark and you 
wanted to have a quite thick shot that was 
just chocolate and not a lot of subtlety, 1.2 ml/s flow rate would be good, but you'd be looking...you want 
the grind to give you some 
pressure between 6 and 9 bar. The milk the uh flow profile for 
espresso is I think at 2 ml/s, and that's asking you to be coarser 
and to make a faster shot. So those two approaches. And in both cases, pressure is going to go 
up and go down if you've dialed in right. Okay? And he's dialed in nicely, so here we 
are at a constant flow rate of 1.7 ml/s, we've gone up to 9 bar and 
this curve comes out. Now, at this point, I would probably 
pull this as a ristretto, and the reason I would is that 
we've now lost pressure here. And the reason we've lost pressure 
is because this flow rate is not 
enough to maintain this. But this is a classic curve that comes 
out of the theory of extraction. See how straight this is? This is linear extraction. What's happening is we've 
got water on the puck, and now coffee material is 
coming out into our cup. And as coffee material comes out, there's 
less puck there and less resistance. And this nice linear line here is indicating 
that nothing went wrong with that. If we had some channeling, it would go 
like this and then it would crash, you'd see an inflection. If he was using a grinder with a lot 
of fines, you might see it go down 
and then come back up again as the fines were migrating. So this is a really nice cup. And one of the reasons I wanted to 
pull this shot is we see here, around 
here, extraction's kind of done, by which I mean the puck resistance 
should go down as the shot is continuing. Coffee material is coming out 
of the puck into the cup. So there's less coffee resisting 
the same amount of water. If pressure is not going down, 
or it's going down quite slowly, our extraction has stalled; it's taken 
all the material out that it can. Very little more coffee 
material is coming out now. And so there is a theory, and I quite like it, of using this kind of profile and then 
stopping it manually here at the elbow. That's when your extraction 
has completed. Now, shots like the Adaptive profile 
are a modification of this theory. What Adaptive does is look at 
the flow rate here at this point, and then it continues that flow rate. So Adaptive would have continued the 
flow rate here at about 3ml/s. And it does that automatically for you, 
that's why it's called Adaptive. Let's have a taste. We are good. Mhm. Wow that tastes so different. That's crazy. And what's funny 23 seconds, 
almost exactly the amount of time. Yes. Tell me what you're tasting there. It tastes way more fruity 
notes coming out compared to the previous cup. The first one Default profile I 
only taste like dark chocolate, more intense, but this 
one tastes more delicate, and somehow the after taste 
also lasts longer in my mouth. So here's our flow rate, here, during 
extraction, we had a flow rate of 1.7. Can you hit the back button and 
let's look at the previous shot. Yes. Okay. So this started at about 
1.1ml/s and ended at 2.9. Okay, so this was kind of all over the place and the focus of this profile 
was to maintain pressure. This was a pressure profile. Whereas the one we just 
did was a flow profile, and the taste that comes 
out is quite different. This is one, I would say, where maybe 
crema and flavors that come out under 
pressure are being really prioritized, whereas let's go back to the 
last one, the most recent one, whereas this the pressure was allowed to 
crash as long as we had constant flow. Almost exactly 18.22 seconds 
versus 18.23 seconds, constant flow versus increasing. And I agree with you. I think I'm really surprised 
it's even the same bean, [laughing] because there's now there 
actually is some fruit to it, it isn't just a really simple nice base, this actually feels like a 
more expensive coffee now. Mhm. So that's quite interesting. And what I would do if I wanted 
to fiddle with this some more is I might change this to 
be a little bit higher. Let's pull up settings on this. So there's a couple things I would do. One is I might change 
this 1.7 to go up to 2, which is the flow profile for espresso, and then I'll just do this, 
it's describing here. What I might do is instead 
of having it decline like so, I might have it go up. Okay? And that's because as the puck 
erodes, pressure goes down. So I might tinker with 
this and start with a 2, and then start to increase it to 
try and find the balance between a 
constant flow and keeping pressure. But...oops. Actually I can just type it in. 1.1. Okay. So this shot here from 1.1 to 3 is 
actually a flow controlled profile that would now mimic what 
the first Default profile did, because while that other shot 
was pressure oriented, right, 
9 bar or 8.6 bar going down to 6, we saw the flow rate went from 1.1 to 2.9. We can just plug that right in and say we 
want our flow rate to go from 1.1 to 2.9, and then we'll see what 
kind of pressure comes out. So it's kind of interesting, because 
with a shot, you can decide do you 
want to control pressure or flow. You control one, the other one happens. And I think not enough people 
play with the flow profile shots, and that's because I think of the tradition 
of everything being pressure oriented, because of the plumbing over pressure 
valves make it easy to control pressure, whereas flow is something that they 
haven't really been able to control, 
except for manual levers...visually. Let's go ahead and make a Londinium. Now, Londinium and Adaptive are 
profiles we've talked about before, and the key thing we're going to see that's 
different is we're going to have a fast fill, 
but then we're going to have a pause here. And we're going to change beans. We're first going to do the dark arts. Is that right? We said we're going to do 
Londinium two ways, is that what we said? Yes. Okay, good. So Londinium is a spring lever 
profile that has a pause in the 
middle of it that's pressurized. And I would say the framework of that 
profile how that works is generally the best So fast fill with a pause, a soak time I 
guess is the way you might call it, Scott Rao's Blooming Espresso calls it a 
bloom time, because he has it go so long, and then followed by a pressure 
rise and then an extraction. And Londinium on the DE1 is saved 
under two names; LRV2 and LRV3, because it's the Londinium R machine 
and version two and version three. The difference is that at the 
end of Londinium v2, if the 
flow rate's going too high, the profile goes down and 
goes to a lower flow rate, whereas Londinium v3 
is always pressure controlled. They're both really good, it's really a 
microscopic difference between them. But try them both. See, yeah, different people 
like different ones. Here, we're using Londinium v3, which 
is going to be pressure profiled. The key thing about Londinium is that 
it has this pressurized soak time, And you don't want to 
use Londinium for light roasts, because this here, you can see 
water is going through the puck, 
a fair amount of it, actually, right? and a lot more than we want. And this shot is going to be too coarse. So we're going to have to 
pull this shot again. And I knew it was going to be too coarse, 
because of this pressurized time here. So we filled, and then we kept a bit 
of pressure, 3 bar on the puck, and then it was supposed to compress 
and come out nice and thick and even. This profile I wouldn't recommend 
for light roasts, because light 
roasts don't survive this. Light roasts just don't have the viscosity 
to hold up against a long 3 bar soak time. And the water just kind of pours 
through and you get a sour shot. With medium light and darker, probably 
iffy with dark roast, but medium light to 
medium dark, this works really well. But what you're looking for is dripping 
here somewhere between 2 and 8 g. Here, we  had 17g. So that's a really nice way 
to um dial in your grind. And when we talk about D-Flow, we'll 
see that D-Flow is able to move beyond 
this soak time by using the scale, which is a pretty cool trick. So other things we can see 
besides the shot time, 20 sec, 
not that far off actually, but the big thing is 
peak pressure of 5.5 bar, and this dripping time, this 
dripping volume being quite high. So here we are trying it again. So once again, this is Dark 
Arts that we're here? Yes. Okay. And now our dripping is more 
under control so we're at 4g 
we're probably going to hit 8g. We hit 10 g of dripping, so we're 
still a hair too coarse, but not bad. And notice what this profile has 
done, which is kind of interesting; it's peaked at just under 7 bar, 6.7 bar, uh sorry 6.9 bar here. It didn't make a gusher. And that's one of the things 
I like about Londinium; it has some logic in here 
that I won't go into to prevent a really terrible 
shot from happening. Shot time 21 seconds. The thing that's going to be different 
about this is this looks really 
different from our previous shots, right, cause we have this soak time 
here before we have the pressure rise. But with shots that are darker, they 
extract quite easily in the water, and this 3 bars here gives 
us a lot of nice flavors. You don't want to do this with dark roasts, 
because you're going to over extract. You don't want to do it with a light 
roast, because it'll just pour through. Right, tell me what you're tasting. There's still acidity similar to 
the previous one but it's milder than the flow profile for milky drinks, but I feel like the there's 
more layer to it, right, this one. Yeah. So you're preferring the 
Londinium like this? Yes. Okay. I would say more like acidity driven, yeah. And what's happening is this 
phase here is getting us more 
of like a filter coffee extraction, right, there's this long soak time, 
so we're getting more flavor out. It's not quite dusty yet. I'm not getting that feeling. It's much less thick. Mhm. Right, the mouth feel has 
really really dropped. I am not a huge fan of that for this bean. Go ahead and and I'll keep 
babbling on while you make the 
Qararo with the same one. And that's because for me, this bean just 
doesn't have a whole lot of fruity flavors. Mhm. And so, I feel like we've just gotten 
a bit too much bitter here, and we've strayed too far 
from the nature of this coffee, which to me is baker's chocolate 
with a little bit of fruit. And they talk about cherry; 
we talked about the the red fruit 
flavors coming out of that. So possibly if we ground 
this finer and I... Is this the one that you did a long 
shot at 50 seconds, of these beans? Uh yes. Yes. And you really liked that. Yeah. Yeah. And that was a very smooth shot. Yes. Yeah. So what Mark did earlier during 
the testing, because he spent 
the day prepping for this, is like a 45, 50 sec 
version...53 seconds, okay, Londinium with those Dark Art beans, and he much preferred it to I 
think like a 35 second shot you did. Mhm. And so I'm not going to say 
Londinium is the wrong profile, I'm going to say with these beans 
that are darker, not very fruity, I would want to grind finer 
and have less dripping. And I'd want the shot to last longer. And Londinium, remember, is a 
lever machine; lever machines are 
generally for classic coffee beans. Some of them can do other beans, 
but that's what their design was for. So I would highly recommend Londinium 
with a grind that's a bit finer, and that might just do what you like. Alright, so here we have 
something quite a bit finer. And we're now on Qararo, which are the 
medium light beans from L'Alchimiste. So but I think what we're going to 
find is, because they're lighter, as the pressure increases, they're 
going to extract at a reasonable rate. These lighter roast beans are not going 
to have nearly as much puck resistance. We're also um yeah so we're also using a grinder 
that doesn't have a lot of fines. And what happened here, which 
is one of the things I find 
very interesting at Londinium, is pressure went up, flow was going up, notice the flow being nice and linear. Again, nice extraction. But at this flow rate here, the 
programming for Londinium says 
that's as fast as we want to go. The Londinium is not optimized 
for light roast beans that want 
really fast flow rates, it's optimized really for medium 
light to medium dark, and when this flow rate went too high, it switched from being pressure 
profiled to being flow profiled and dropped the flow from 
this higher rate here to 2 ml/s. And that caused the pressure to crash. Now, that's essentially a safety measure. The shot is being salvaged, especially since all shots, 
as the puck degrades, puck resistance goes down; if 
you hold pressure, flow will go up. That's what we're seeing here. The problem is - this is why 
we don't like 9 bar machines - is in the last 5, 10 seconds, that 
flow is going really fast, you're 
getting a lot of acidity. Londinium is preventing that by 
saying when the shot gets too fast, let the pressure drop and go back to flow. Let's have a taste. Tell me what you're tasting there. Well, first of all, you can really taste the 
the fruity driven profile from this bean. And also, I really like one after I swallow 
it there's still a lot of flavor coming out. Yeah, a lot of length. 30 seconds in, and the 
flavors are still there. Yes. It isn't...and it didn't actually hit me 
as quite as hard as the other one. Mhm, yes. It wasn't a full cup the same way. Yeah I agree. This is now, I 
don't know, we're now 60 seconds in, and I'm still getting length and flavors. I don't get any baker's chocolate No, yes. on this. We're now kind of like a mid 
roast if not light roast chocolate, And it's not a blend, like it doesn't 
taste like a light roast bean, but it's very fruit forward. Yes, yeah. I still can milk this. Acidity is not bad, like it's what they call pleasing acidity. Mhm. Right, like the balance is nice, it isn't acidity like a channeled 
shot or a citric acid, Mhm mhm mhm, yeah. it's fruit; it's acidity like 
you might find to a fruit. And this was a quite successful shot. At home, I pull these quite fast actually on I have a Niche, and I'm pulling the 
same beans, I'm pulling it as a 23 sec shot And that's because I'm coarser; I don't have a ton of dripping, 
because the Niche has got fines. So I'm still in this sort of dripping range. So really, focusing on dripping only makes 
sense if we've got the same grinders. So he's quite fine here on this grinder in 
order to keep this dripping under control, but he's so fine that the 
shot was 31 seconds. My morning shot is 23 sec, 
same amount in cup. In both cases, very fruity. The shorter length, sorry, the faster shot with a grinder 
that has fines is going to keep the 
higher flow and give you more fruit. With no fines, you might 
want to grind finer. Alright, let us go to Adaptive. Now the main thing that's 
going to change with Adaptive is this section here that's pressurized is 
not going to be pressurized anymore. And that's because adaptive is 
meant to work with light roasts 
and medium roast beans. And with light roast beans, 
this is a terrible idea. The dripping really goes high. So but with a medium roast bean, 
Adaptive is going to work okay. We're going to see this pressure go up 
here, and then the flow will cut, and the water just cuts out and 
the pressure is just going to 
decline on its own. If you have a very light roast, the pressure 
will just crash quickly and you have a soak, and the difference is that when 
you keep pressure on the puck, you generally have more crema, because you took the puck 
and you compressed it and 
you held it compressed, and then when you rised the pressure, 
it never expanded, it didn't bloom, you also get this very nice, smooth curve. So if you're struggling with this nice 
pressure rise here, avoiding gushers, Londinium's going to be better because 
it's going to have this compressed puck. However, if your beans are on the 
lighter side you might have a really hard 
time controlling this dripping here. And that's why you might want to use 
Adaptive, that's not going to have that. But adaptive not pressurizing 
during this dripping time, it's going to make the pressure rise be 
more stressful for the coffee puck, and more likely to channel. And so here we are pressurizing. You can see the flow 
is significantly higher. So quite different than Londinium. 
Same grind or different grind? Different grind. What did we do with the grind here? So in the Londinium the 
grind was 1.1, and this is 1.3. Okay, so we've gone coarser for Adaptive. Why do we go coarser? So in my testing before, we find 
it this bean in particular, if I grind it a little bit coarser compared 
to Londinium, it just extract better, yeah. Yeah, ok. Here's...so we had the fast fill, and you can see the water 
just cut off and went to zero, you can see pressure, instead 
of staying at 3, started to come 
down, but it didn't crash. And it's great that it didn't crash. So these are...um yeah these 
are Ethiopian beans, which will 
tend to have more fines as well. So the fact that we're using a low fines 
grinder is somewhat mitigated by the 
fact that we're using a high fines bean. And the reason I can see that 
is this pressure didn't crash. If I had some other beans that 
had less fines in them, this pressure
 is more likely to go down. That's fine, that's what 
Adaptive is meant for, but it's also one of the reasons these 
beans in that grinder work on Londinium, because the fines worked 
to hold things here. So some of the things to notice: The second thing about Adaptive 
is when the pressure rises, it 
times out after 6 seconds; it says that's enough. Where did we reach? We reached 6.5 bar 
and then the flow rate was maintained. So remember when we're doing the 
flow rate shot, the second profile, we're saying it to dial in the 
flow rate to the grind. This is doing that for you. This pressurize stage is determining 
the coarseness of the grind. So in 6 seconds, we pressure up, see 
where the flow rate is, that's the 
flow rate we want, continue here. If this was very finely ground, this would 
go to the max, the flow would be down 
here and we'd have a slow flow rate. So that's quite handy. Adaptive is essentially taking that flow 
profile shots, but doing it automatically as 
is appropriate to your grind and bean. I feel like that's a really major innovation, 
makes your life a whole lot simpler. And as your bean changes day-to-day, 
as it ages, you don't have to 
necessarily get the grind right, because the profile is going to 
automatically adjust the flow profile. So um let's uh have we tasted this yet? I don't think we have. No. So... Tell me what you're tasting there. I feel like this one the Adaptive the fruitiness tastes more like a citric, more I would say it's more obvious Mhm. acidity compared to the previous one. The after taste still quite strong probably 
not as long as lengthy as the previous one but it's more like layer driven Mhm. taste. I feel like we're making this more and 
more taste like a light roast. Yes, yes. And so that's one of the things I quite 
like about medium light beans, it's one 
of the reasons that's our house bean is that depending on how we 
profile it, we can make it kind 
of muted and nice with milk, all the way to something that a 
light roast person will be okay with. And at this point I'm not even necessarily 
getting chocolate it's more like carob, it's pulled back on that, the 
roast flavors are very minor. It still tastes like coffee, 
if you know what I mean, it doesn't taste like tea, 
which some beans can do. But and he's gone coarser also to try and 
accentuate that light roastness of this. You could go finer with this, with Adaptive, but this wouldn't be the 
profile I would do that with. If you go finer, I would go with 
Londinium that maintains that 
shot, gives you a really thick one. So you've got D-Flow next, and the reason I put D-Flow at 
the end is is D-Flow is not a profile. D-Flow is the family of profiles 
that look like Londinium. And what I mean by that is they're fast fill, 
soak time under pressure, and then rise 
pressure and then some stuff happens. So let's pull up the D-Flow 
and let's take a look. Alright, so advanced D-Flow. So what first thing you'll notice is the 
the shot editor is completely different, and I'll walk you through it. The idea here is that instead of having 
all the programming steps of a profile, what's been done here is the coffee 
relevant variables are all here, and you adjust the coffee relevant 
variables here of the Londinium family, and this line here, this 
chart here is going to change. So your dose weight and the temperature, 
temperature of the pre-infusion this part 
here, temperature of the infusion here, there's also temperature here for the 
extraction, which is this part here. Right? Infuse here and pour here. The pressure here is this, which 
is how much pressure to leave 
during the soak time, and you could bring that down to 
zero and have it work like Adaptive if you set that on zero. Now, this infusion here is 
saying infuse until either, and it's a bit of a swap here in terms of 
it's not really doing what it's saying, because there's time, volume, 
and weight; time is 1 min, volume 
is 100 mls, weight is 4 grams. Of those, only one is actually 
relevant, because D-Flow is 
assuming you own a scale. And with a scale, it's going to 
wait for 4 grams of dripping, and then it's going to 
move on to the next step. That's a quite neat concept, because what it's saying is that if 
your grind is really coarse, let's 
just have a short infusion time and if your grind is really fine, let's 
wait until it's really saturated. Now the reason that's useful 
is that if you grind too fine, you might not give enough time 
for the whole puck to saturate. There's there's kind of two reasons 
to have this infusion time: one is just to let all the beans soak, but the other is to make sure the 
whole puck is fully saturated. That's why it's called pre-infusion. When the infusion happens, you 
think that the whole puck is now 
wet and you're going to is extract, but if you look at the bottom 
of a 9 bar espresso, you'll notice that water or the coffee 
starts coming out within like 3 seconds, and it comes out of specific spots of 
the puck, and then after a few seconds, 
the whole puck is extracting. And that's because if you hit a puck 
really hard without any pre-infusion, it's going to find certain faster paths, and then from there, the 
water is going to spread out. And so you get less of an extraction, 
also an uneven extraction, because those first spots where 
the coffee first came out will have 
had the most time with the water. And this is trying to fight that. What it's doing is putting water on 
the puck, the puck resists, and 
then water is mostly turned off. But there's still pressure on it. And the reason for the pressure 
is to push the water as quickly as 
possible through the whole puck. So if you have a medium to 
dark roast bean, you look below, you might just see like very typically 
what's called doughnut extraction, so you'll see coffee coming from 
the outside and then slowly coming 
in and filling on the inside. This is making sure that the 
pressure doesn't rise until the 
whole coffee puck is wet. And that's going to give 
you a much more even extraction. It's also going to avoid channeling, because pushing water through a 
puck that has dry and wet spots is 
really asking for more channeling. So this Londinium recipe, and I really, 
I...god, you know, hats off to the 
guy who invented this machine, because this is really 
a good way to make coffee. It was a a big aha moment 
for me to realize that the Slayer style pre-infusion, 
which is slower water flow, was less good than this, because that just used capillary action, so water going to the next 
parts and slowly spreading. And the problem with the 
capillary action is it's quite slow 
for the whole puck to get wet. But if you do capillary action 
under pressure, then the whole 
puck gets wet much quicker, and you get a much more even 
extraction you get a higher 
EY (extraction yield) as well. So that's what's going on here. So 4 g dripping, temperature on the extraction, and then this is the clever bit; instead of defining pressure 
and/or flow, you define both. And what he's doing here is he's saying 
the maximum flow rate I want is 1.7 ml/s, but I also don't want to go over 8.5 bar. So what's going to happen here? And I had to sort of look at this and then 
I...that Damian guy is pretty clever, because what's gonna happen here 
is two different possible shots; 1) Your grind is too fine. You're just going to have an 8.5 bar shot. Nothing wrong with that. It's going to be a perfectly good 
traditional shot, 8.5 bars. If your grind is about right, what's going 
to happen is you're going to hit 8.5 bar, your puck is going to erode, 
your flow rate is going to go up, it's going to go faster than 1.7 ml/s 
and then flow is going to kick in 
and control flow. I know I just said a whole lot of stuff, 
but that's what Londinium just did. But he simplified it 
down to just two variables. There. And then if you're too coarse, (2) and 
you can't get anywhere near 8.5 bar and 
your flow rate starts to go way up, you're going to get a kind 
of Sweet and Gentle shot. It's going to keep the flow rate under 1.7, the pressure is going to rise 
to whatever 1.7 ml/s does, and then it's going to go 
down as the puck erodes. So it's like these little two things here, he 
simplified three profiles right in there. Right? There's an Italian espresso, flat 
9 bar E61, if you're ground too fine, if you're just right, it's going 
to look like Londinium, and if you're a bit too coarse, it's 
going to do um a Sweet and Gentle. I was pretty impressed. So I don't think enough people 
spend time working on D-Flow. And what I just explained 
about how the profile is essentially mimicking different profiles 
based on what happens to the grind size that's pretty clever. And when I have asked people... Go ahead and pull the shot. When I've asked people are you 
mostly making good espresso, occasionally making good espresso, 
or never making good espresso, the people who were in the always 
making good espresso camp the profiles that got mentioned 
over and over were D-Flow, 
ExtramundoDos, and Adaptive. Those were the profiles. And the thing about all three of those is they all have their own approach 
for dealing with the grind being 
in various ways. And Extramundo Dos being what 
I'd recommend for people who 
are using light roast, Adaptive a good medium, 
Londinium also a good medium, D-Flow good everywhere. And if you've got light roast beans and 
you want to have a much longer time here, I would lower this pressure down to zero and increase the time of the dripping. So what we're going to see 
here is where our grind is. And we are still on the 
fruity Qararo beans, and this could be anything. I don't know how the grinds are set up. Right? So this is quite fine. You can see the pre-infusion 
grams are quite low, so we might get a traditional shot here 
that looks kind of like a flat 8.5 bar Advancing to next step, 
because we got 4 g there. Not what I expected. And partially, it's the beans. So this was ground quite fine, we 
didn't have much dripping, but then 
we didn't get much pressure. Probably very long soak time, meant that we weren't 
able to make much pressure. But let's taste it. So there we are, not a whole lot of 
crema, which is to be expected 
because we didn't get much pressure. So what do you think about that? It doesn't taste like the 
same bean actually. There's more almost like 
floral flavor coming out. Yeah like kind of rose kind of thing. Can you do me a favor, go two 
settings finer on your grind and 
let's just pull the same shot, cause I want to show D-Flow adapting. So I think what's going to happen is 
we're going to have even less here, and hopefully a higher pressure. Okay, so, okay, finer, got it. Right, so you see that doughnut 
extraction, see how the center is dry, that's 
what this pressurized soak is doing. Is it's waiting to rise pressure, until 
now the whole puck has been wet, and what that means is now 
when the pressure is going to rise, hopefully we're going to see a 
shot that's a little bit more even. So we are seeing some 
extraction on the side, but it's still looking pretty good. So what this shot did we once again did 3.7 ml, it took longer 
for our pre-infusion to give us that time and I think these light roasted 
beans are having trouble giving 
pressure after a long soak, that's the bean and that's a combination 
also of the grinder not having fines. And if I were using the Niche, 
I could go coarser, and I would still get not much dripping 
and the pressure would go up higher. And again, that linear 
extraction on constant flow. Remember I said if the flow rate's 
too high, it'll limit it to 1.7 which 
is what happened here; we got a 1.7 flow rate, top 
was 1.8, ending in 1.7 here, and then some sort of pressure came out. And this is indicating in the end, I 
would say the puck prep 
distribution was not great on that, because at the beginning we 
could see like one side got 
water and then the outside and took quite a long time 
for the whole puck to get wet, but it didn't matter too much,  because this very long soak 
under pressure repaired the puck And I know it repaired it, because 
we were able to rise in pressure and then have a nice linear extraction, 
even though we had constant flow. So I really love this pressurized 
long soak as a way to heal a puck that hasn't been that homogeneous. Tell me what you taste there. I feel like this one, compared 
to the previous, one there's 
definitely more flavor coming out. And the aftertaste is pretty long actually. It's a really good shot. Yeah. I'm really impressed um with this shot. I agree, it's like almost like a 
concentrated mango coming in, which I haven't really gotten until now. Also has some mouth feel, which is great. Tremendous length. Dried mango. Like true stuff is what I'm imagining. And still some nice chocolate, 
I mean who doesn't like chocolate 
bars with some mango bits in it. That's a nice thing, right? And the shot looks beautiful. What's interesting about D-Flow is 
because it triggers here based on weight, you can have a very long soak. And I could have changed it and been 
time-based like Londinium and Adaptive is, and that would give different flavors. But the whole point of this 
profile is that once you know 
a bit about extraction theory and the relationship between 
pressure and soak time, then you can just directly adjust those 
without becoming a profile programmer. And I feel like that's a major contribution, to be able to apply your coffee knowledge 
and your tasting knowledge, without having to become so technical. So give that a try. Thanks for watching. Now, we're going to just quickly do some 
of the questions that have come in, and there's a bunch of questions 
about is this time correct, like is 35 to 45 seconds correct, 
is this Omnirose correct? There's no such thing as correct 
coffee, it is way too complicated, 
you're going to have to taste, and you're going to have to say 
"I like that more, I like that less." Look at the chart and go "Okay I taste 
now thinner and that line is lower." I think John talked about that. [laughing] And so if this pressure goes down, 
you're going to have less mouth feel, because you got less pressure. More pressure gives you more mouth feel. Do you want more mouth feel or 
do you want more fruit? It's up to you. But what's interesting is if 
you stick with the same bean, then the curves looking a certain way 
are going to give you certain flavors. And you're going to know what it 
tastes like before you taste it if 
you've seen that curve before. I hope that was helpful. There's no shortcuts, AI is not 
going to solve the human pallet, nor the complexity of these coffees. Thanks for watching.